 The United States should not delay in leading a global coalition to take out ISIS with overwhelming force. As the words of French President Hollande have made clear, the United States will not be alone in galvanizing this global effort. Militarily, we need to intensify our efforts in the air – and on the ground. While air power is essential, it alone cannot bring the results we seek. The United States – in conjunction with our NATO allies and more Arab partners – will need to increase our presence on the ground. The scope of which should be in line with what our military generals recommend will be necessary to achieve our objective. But the bulk of these ground troops will need to come from local forces that we have built workable relationships with. Thank you very much. I appreciate the hospitality of the Citadel and the privilege of addressing members of the Corps of Cadets. It’s great to be here, and I’m proud to report that in the Citadel spirit, I got to the Parade Deck early this morning and went for a run with the Summerall Guards. So next time a Presidential candidate comes by here, tell them Jeb set a new precedent. From now on, you can’t give a speech to cadets without first doing some P.T. And for all of us, what a privilege this morning to be in the presence of war heroes throughout this room. And for me, to be introduced by Major General James Livingston, is a special honor. When you are in the presence of General Livingston, you don’t need any reminders from me about military virtues. His character, and the character of our military is summed up in that one word on the medal he earned: “Valor.” This Marine did more than could ever be asked, gave more than could ever be repaid, and I am honored to have his support. Thank you all for being here. *** As we gather today, we do so with memories fresh from the atrocities in Paris. The indiscriminate murder of people sitting outside a café…the slaughter of innocents outside the national soccer stadium, and at a concert hall…The merciless killing of women, children, and unarmed citizens whose only crime was living in freedom. Our hearts are broken for the people of France. They are our oldest and first ally and we are joined together by shared values. Like France, we know the deep sorrow of innocent lives lost, due to terrorist brutality. What happened on the streets of Paris on Friday should not come as a surprise. After all, we have seen ISIS expand its deadly reach in recent weeks to Lebanon, to Egypt, and to Turkey - to say nothing of the daily horrors faced by those who live under their control in Syria, Iraq, Libya, and Afghanistan. This brutal savagery is a reminder of what is at stake in this election. We are choosing the leader of the free world. And if these attacks remind us of anything, it is that we are living in serious times that require serious leadership And that the free world needs to act. The last seven years under President Obama have taught us that problems do not take care of themselves in the absence of American leadership. During the State of the Union address, he declared we were stopping the advance of ISIS, and soon after they took Ramadi. Last Friday, he repeated the delusion that ISIS is contained, just hours before they murdered 129 innocent people in Paris, and hours after they killed dozens in Beirut. America has had enough of empty words, of declarations detached from reality of an administration with no strategy or no intention of victory. Here is the truth you will not hear from our president: We are at war with radical Islamic terrorism. It is the war of our time, and a struggle that will determine the fate of the free world. Three months ago at the Reagan Library, I warned that we need to defeat ISIS and I outlined a clear and serious strategy to eradicate it The actions I called for then remain critical: · We must unleash the power of our Air Force by removing self-imposed restraints;· enforce a no fly zone;· create safe zones in Syria; · allow our special operations forces to target terrorist networks; and· arm the Kurdish forces. Since the attacks in Paris, the demand for action to stamp out ISIS has rightly grown. The United States should not delay in leading a global coalition to take out ISIS with overwhelming force. As the words of French President Hollande have made clear, the United States will not be alone in galvanizing this global effort. Militarily, we need to intensify our efforts in the air – and on the ground. While air power is essential, it alone cannot bring the results we seek. The United States – in conjunction with our NATO allies and more Arab partners – will need to increase our presence on the ground. The scope of which should be in line with what our military generals recommend will be necessary to achieve our objective. But the bulk of these ground troops will need to come from local forces that we have built workable relationships with. Finally, to take out ISIS, we must end Assad’s brutal war against his own people and create a political solution that allows for a stable Syria. Let there be no doubt, this will not be easy. Some of you in this room will serve on the front lines of that fight against ISIS and against radical Islamic terrorism. You will sign up for an uncertain fate, on foreign fields of battle, because your country, and the cause of freedom, are calling you. *** For generations, American-led alliances, American diplomacy, American military power, and American credibility defended the peace and deterred the violent. This is the way forward in our time as well. But for the United States, who’s going to help our friends and allies in the Middle East gain the upper hand against radical Islamic terrorists like ISIS, al-Qaeda, Hamas, and Hizballah? But for the United States, who will lead the effort to once and for all stop Iran’s bid for nuclear weapons capability, its support for terrorism, and its ballistic missile proliferation? But for the United States, who will defend Christians, Iranian dissidents, religious minorities, and other persecuted peoples in the Middle East and across the world? Who will be the dependable friend of the people of Israel, standing with them against the worst, if not the United States of America? The fate of millions, the security of our own people, and the cause of human freedom itself, all depend on the decisions we make in these coming years. Bad things – and sometimes very bad things happen when America steps away from hard challenges. It is time for American leadership again, and that leadership requires a change in course. *** Defending our national interests always involves risk, but the greatest risk of all is the risk of military inferiority. Today, that is the direction we are headed. The next president will take office after an eight-year drawdown of American military power, and careless, chronic neglect by the President and Congress. You would be hard-pressed these days to find any soldier, sailor, airman, or Marine who feels that Washington is doing right by the military. And I agree. In the span of a decade, our government will have withheld a trillion dollars from our national defense. There is no security rationale for these cuts, or any kind of strategic vision. They are completely arbitrary – imposed by a process that everyone in Washington claims to dislike, but no one in Washington has the courage to stop. In these years we have seen cuts in defense that are not only automatic, but also systematic. Not only relentless, but irrational. We are going from the cutting edge of military power to what the Army secretary calls the “ragged edge of readiness.” The active Army has 80,000 fewer soldiers. Half of our stateside Marine units are not ready to fight. Twelve fleets of Air Force planes qualify for antique license plates in Virginia. The B-52 – the backbone of our bomber fleet – took its first flight when Harry Truman was President. As for the entire naval fleet, it has shrunk to around half the size it was at the end of the Cold War. Sometimes big problems are summed up in one anecdote. Here’s a story that caught my attention. To conduct training exercises under our NATO obligations in Europe, American forces have been borrowing helicopters and other vehicles from our allies. We don’t have enough of our own hardware and equipment even for training purposes…. So the British are spotting us choppers. That’s not just unsafe – it’s embarrassing. Whatever challenges we face in Europe or elsewhere, we’re not going to meet them with borrowed equipment. Others are not following our example of military downsizing. China, to take the most obvious example, has for years been spending heavily on warships, submarines, long-range attack aircraft, missile systems, and other capabilities that threaten America’s strategic position in the Pacific. And whatever China’s designs are in all this, we can safely assume it’s not in our interest to draw down as they build up. *** President Obama doesn’t see a reason to change course. And here in South Carolina two weeks ago, Hillary Clinton said that her foreign policy would be no more aggressive or forward leaning than his. I reject their diminished view of America’s role in the world. In my administration, security for the United States will mean gaining and keeping the edge in every category, old and new. Whether it’s our command of the seas, the land, or the air, of space or cyberspace, America’s goal should be technological superiority beyond question. My plan puts the warfighters first, to maintain a force without equal. Such a force is essential for deterrence, but we must understand that deterrence sometimes fails. In such circumstances, ideally after other elements of American influence and power have been utilized, when the threat we face is an urgent one, and defeating it is in our national interest, we must be prepared to use force. When we do use force, it must be effective, and our objectives must be well defined, so that one deployment doesn’t lead to endless others – or leave the job undone. Any use of force will be purposeful, aimed only toward victory, and always with the heavy thumb of American power, resources, and resolve on the scales of war. I have a plan for a 21-st century military to project that force – when necessary - around the globe. To prevail in conflict, or better still, to deter enemies and avoid conflict, we must have the end-strength, the readiness, and the equipment to meet any challenge from any adversary. We don’t need to be the world’s policemen, but we must restore our place as the leader and indispensible power of the free world. This is how we get there: No service branch has taken deeper personnel cuts in recent years than the Army, which will soon have an active-duty force of just 450,000 soldiers. That is not nearly enough to protect America’s interests. So, as president, I would ask the Congress for an increase of 40,000 active-duty soldiers. Under my plan, the Marines will be restored to an end-strength of 186,000 fighters, because in a crisis, everything can turn on the speed and skill of the Corps. We will act to assure dominance in air and naval forces. We will not allow our pilots to fly 20th century aircraft into the face of 21^st-Century air defenses. And we must continue to invest in America's Special Operations Command. In this complex fight against radical Islamic terrorism, they have demonstrated time and time again their ability to capture and kill senior terrorists, and to embed with, train, and enable local forces so that a larger commitment of American forces is not required. Like our military, America’s intelligence agencies are overstretched, and struggling to respond to technological advances by adversaries and harmful leaks of sensitive information. I will give our talented corps of intelligence professionals -- who too often go unrecognized -- everything they need to support the warfighter and to get the job done. I believe in the principle that the greater our superiority in military power, the less likely it is that we will have to assert that power, or be provoked into using it. Our best Presidents have called it peace through strength. And this principle applies to capabilities of every kind, which all require foresight and sustained commitment. Beginning immediately as President, I would work with Congress to rebuild our military forces starting with our most urgent needs: · a new generation of aircraft, so that our planes aren’t older than our pilots. · a larger naval fleet, so that our sailors patrol in the strongest and safest ships on the seas. · an acceleration of our submarine program, so that America will always be a quiet whisper in our adversaries’ ear · improved missile defenses to protect against the growing threats posed by Iranian and North Korean missiles · surveillance and cybersecurity capabilities superior to anything fielded against them, so that we find the threats before the threats find us. · And I will fight to restore the PATRIOT Act’s metadata program to ensure we have the ability to connect the dots between known foreign terrorists and potential operatives here in the United States. If ever there were a time for such a program, it is now, and yet too few in Congress were courageous enough to defend this program when it mattered most. I also laid out a plan here in South Carolina a few months ago to address the VA scandal, modernize the department and empower vets with as many choices as they need to ensure those who serve our country are treated with the dignity they deserve when they return home. These are among the goals of the 21^st Century military plan that I will put before the next Congress. Not because I seek war, but because I seek peace. And I believe the best policy for creating the conditions for peace is to develop the capability to wage war with crushing force. *** However, we cannot and will not simply throw money at this problem. We need to reform the Pentagon, shedding overhead passed down from a different generation and adapt it to our 21^st Century challenges. That means procurement reform so we buy the right tools at the right price – and get them to the warfighter at the right time. We need to reduce the size of the civilian Department of Defense workforce so that our war-fighters and their families aren’t forced to make sacrifices to protect public sector union interests. No interest – and certainly no special interest – should ever come before the needs of the men and women who wear our country’s uniform. Nor can any serious modernization plan overlook our vulnerabilities in cyber-warfare. It is frankly appalling that the United States is not plainly superior to rivals who seek to undermine us in cyberspace. Our government, and American companies, are under cyber-attack every day. To protect ourselves, it is not enough to keep making fixes after every breach. As president, I would give our intelligence agencies the mandate and resources to stay ahead of this threat. I would work hard to see that the United States is at the forefront of developing a much-needed doctrine on cyber warfare. Potential hackers and cyber thieves – government or non-state actors – need to understand what sort of response they will face should they attack us. Making good on this new doctrine will also require that we develop our own capabilities to the point that America’s retaliation to a cyber attack would be certain and devastating. *** America, as John F. Kennedy said, “requires only one kind of defense policy, a policy summed up in a single word ‘first.’” President Kennedy explained, “I do not mean ‘first, if,’ I do not mean ‘first, but,’ I do not mean ‘first, when,’ I mean: First. Period. If we are to take command of our future, we must ensure our military is “First. Period.” once again. Our armed forces need to know that support for the military is not another partisan issue, and that their commander in chief is not just another politician. In every circumstance, against every attempt to shortchange our military, our troops need to be certain that the commander in chief has their back. I will. *** I am mindful that Citadel has great traditions, and Charleston has a great history. This is the city where the Civil War’s first shots were fired. And the president who led the Union to war, Abraham Lincoln, did so with humility, knowing the cost of conflict, but also knowing the even greater price of surrender. As we gather today, in the aftermath of the bloodshed in Paris, let it be said that this generation knew the cost of war, but also knew the even greater cost of acquiescence to an enemy with which there is no co-existence. Radical Islamic terrorists have declared war on the western world. Their aim is our total destruction. We can’t withdraw from this threat, or negotiate with it. We have but one choice: to Defeat It. Today we can take inspiration from the courage of the people of France, and from the heroes who liberated it more than 70 years ago. On the Norman Coast, on the bluffs above the beach, thousands of Americans rest. Each one died to stop the evil of their time. They traded their future for ours and their grave markers face west toward the America they would never return to as an ever-present reminder not only of the price of freedom, but the valor of those who protect it. During our time, some of you will be called upon to undertake dangerous missions to protect that freedom and defeat the evil we face today. And it would be my mission that should you be sent into harm’s way, that you be given every tool to wage war with lethal force and efficiency. You’d have the support from Washington that you have from the American people led by a president who is resolute, as I will be, in the defeat of radical Islamic terrorism wherever it appears. Together, we can deter aggression, protect our vital interests, overcome the violent, and defend the innocent who are helpless, but for us. So let us accept the task, and see it through, to move this world again in the direction of peace. God bless you all. 

Thank you all very much. I always feel welcome at Miami-Dade College. This is a place that welcomes everyone with their hearts set on the future – a place where hope leads to achievement, and striving leads to success. For all of us, it is just the place to be in the campaign that begins today. We are 17 months from the time for choosing. The stakes for America’s future are about as great as they come. Our prosperity and our security are in the balance. So is opportunity, in this nation where every life matters and everyone has the right to rise. Already, the choice is taking shape. The party now in the White House is planning a no-suspense primary, for a no-change election. To hold onto power. To slog on with the same agenda under another name: That’s our opponents’ call to action this time around. That’s all they’ve got left. And you and I know that America deserves better They have offered a progressive agenda that includes everything but progress. They are responsible for the slowest economic recovery ever, the biggest debt increases ever, a massive tax increase on the middle class, the relentless buildup of the regulatory state, and the swift, mindless drawdown of a military that was generations in the making. I, for one, am not eager to see what another four years would look like under that kind of leadership. The presidency should not be passed on from one liberal to the next. So, here’s what it comes down to. Our country is on a very bad course. And the question is: What are we going to do about it? The question for me is: What am I going to do about it? And I have decided. I am a candidate for president of the United States. We will take command of our future once again in this country. We will lift our sights again, make opportunity common again, get events in the world moving our way again. We will take Washington – the static capital of this dynamic country – out of the business of causing problems. We will get back on the side of free enterprise and free people. I know we can fix this. Because I’ve done it. Here, in this great and diverse state that looks so much like America. So many challenges could be overcome if we just get this economy growing at full strength. There is not a reason in the world why we cannot grow at a rate of four percent a year. And that will be my goal as president – four percent growth, and the 19 million new jobs that come with it Economic growth that makes a difference for hard-working men and women – who don’t need reminding that the economy is more than the stock market. Growth that lifts up the middle class – all the families who haven’t gotten a raise in 15 years. Growth that makes a difference for everyone. It’s possible. It can be done. We made Florida number one in job creation and number one in small business creation. 1.3 million new jobs, 4.4 percent growth, higher family income, eight balanced budgets, and tax cuts eight years in a row that saved our people and businesses 19 billion dollars. All this plus a bond upgrade to Triple-A compared to the sorry downgrade of America’s credit in these years. That was the commitment, and that is the record that turned this state around. I also used my veto power to protect our taxpayers from needless spending. And if I am elected president, I’ll show Congress how that’s done Leaders have to think big, and we’ve got a tax code filled with small-time thinking and self-interested politics. What swarms of lobbyists have done, we can undo with a vastly simpler system – clearing out special favors for the few reducing rates for all. What the IRS, EPA, and entire bureaucracy have done with overregulation, we can undo by act of Congress and order of the president. Federal regulation has gone far past the consent of the governed. It is time to start making rules for the rule-makers. When we get serious about limited government, we can pursue the great and worthy goals that America has gone too long without. We can build our future on solvency instead of borrowed money. We can honor our commitments on the strength of fiscal integrity. With North American resources and American ingenuity, we can finally achieve energy security for this nation – and with presidential leadership, we can make it happen within five years. If we do all of this, if we do it relentlessly, and if we do it right, we will make the United States of America an economic superpower like no other. We will also challenge the culture that has made lobbying the premier growth industry in the nation’s capital. The rest of the country struggles under big government, while comfortable, complacent interest groups in Washington have been thriving on it. A self-serving attitude can take hold in any capital, just as it once did in Tallahassee. I was a governor who refused to accept that as the normal or right way of conducting the people’s business. I will not accept it as the standard in Washington. We don’t need another president who merely holds the top spot among the pampered elites of Washington. We need a president willing to challenge and disrupt the whole culture in our nation’s capital. I will be that president because I was a reforming governor, not just another member of the club. There’s no passing off responsibility when you’re a governor, no blending into the legislative crowd or filing an amendment and calling that success. As our whole nation has learned since 2008, executive experience is another term for preparation, and there is no substitute for that. We are not going to clean up the mess in Washington by electing the people who either helped create it or have proven incapable of fixing it. In government, if we get a few big things right, we can make life better for millions of people, especially for kids in public schools. Think of what we all watched not long ago in Baltimore where so many young adults are walking around with no vision of a life beyond the life they know. It’s a tragedy played out over and over and over again. After we reformed education in Florida, low-income student achievement improved here more than in any other state. We stopped processing kids along as if we didn’t care – because we do care, and you don’t show that by counting out anyone’s child. You give them all a chance. Here’s what I believe. When a school is just another dead end, every parent should have the right to send their child to a better school – public, private, or charter. Every school should have high standards, and the federal government should have nothing to do with setting them. Nationwide, if I am president, we will take the power of choice away from the unions and bureaucrats and give it back to parents. We made sure of something else in Florida – that children with developmental challenges got schooling and caring attention, just like every other girl and boy. We didn’t leave them last in line. We put them first in line because they are not a problem. They are a priority. That is always our first and best instinct in this nation filled with charitable hearts. Yet these have been rough years for religious charities and their right of conscience. And the leading Democratic candidate recently hinted of more trouble to come. Secretary Clinton insists that when the progressive agenda encounters religious beliefs to the contrary those beliefs, quote, “have to be changed.” That’s what she said, and I guess we should at least thank her for the warning. The most galling example is the shabby treatment of the Little Sisters of the Poor, a Christian charity that dared to voice objections of conscience to Obamacare. The next president needs to make it clear that great charities like the Little Sisters of the Poor need no federal instruction in doing the right thing. It comes down to a choice between the Little Sisters and Big Brother, and I’m going with the Sisters. It’s still a mystery to me why, in these violent times, the president a few months ago thought it relevant at a prayer breakfast to bring up the Crusades. Americans don’t need lectures on the Middle Ages when we are dealing abroad with modern horrors committed by fanatics. From the beginning, our president and his foreign-policy team have been so eager to be the history makers that they have failed to be the peacemakers. With their phone-it-in foreign policy, the Obama-Clinton-Kerry team is leaving a legacy of crises uncontained, violence unopposed, enemies unnamed, friends undefended, and alliances unraveling. This supposedly risk-averse administration is also running us straight in the direction of the greatest risk of all - military inferiority. It will go on automatically until a president steps in to rebuild our armed forces and take care of our troops and our veterans. They have my word – I will do it. We keep dependable friends in this world by being dependable ourselves. I will rebuild our vital friendships. That starts by standing with the brave, democratic State of Israel. American-led alliances need rebuilding too, and better judgment is called for in relations far and near. Ninety miles to our south, there is talk of a state visit by our outgoing president. But we don't need a glorified tourist to go to Havana in support of a failed Cuba. We need an American president to go to Havana in solidarity with a free Cuban people, and I am ready to be that president Great things like that can really happen. And in this country of ours, the most improbable things can happen. Take that from a guy who met his first president on the day he was born, and his second on the day he was brought home from the hospital. The person who handled both introductions is here today. She’s watching what I say – and frankly, with all these reporters around, I’m watching what she says. Please say hello to my wonderful Mom, Barbara Bush. Long before the world knew my parents' names, I knew I was blessed to be their son. And they didn’t mind at all that I found my own path. It led from Texas to Miami by way of Mexico. In 1971, 8 years before then-candidate Ronald Reagan said that we should stop thinking of our neighbors as foreigners, I was ahead of my time in cross-border outreach. Across a plaza, I saw a girl. She spoke only a little English. My Spanish was okay but not that great. With some intensive study, we got that barrier out of the way in a hurry. In the short version, it has been a gracious walk through the years with the former Columba Garnica de Gallo. Whatever else I might or might not have going for me, I’ve got the quiet joy of a man who can say that the most wonderful friend he has in the world is his own wife. And together, we had the not-so-quiet joy of raising three children who have brought us nothing but happiness and pride: George, Noelle, and Jeb. The boys have also brought us more Bushes – their wives, Mandi and Sandra, and our grandchildren Georgia, Prescott, Vivian, and Jack. Campaigns aren’t easy, and they’re not supposed to be. And I know that there are good people running for president. Quite a few, in fact. And not a one of us deserves the job by right of resume, party, seniority, family, or family narrative. It’s nobody’s turn. It’s everybody’s test, and it’s wide open – exactly as a contest for president should be. The outcome is entirely up to you - the voters. It is entirely up to me to earn the nomination of my party and then to take our case all across this great and diverse nation. As a candidate, I intend to let everyone hear my message, including the many who can express their love of country in a different language: Ayúdenos en tener una campaña que les da la bienvenida. Trabajen con nosotros por los valores que compartimos y para un gran futuro que es nuestro para construir para nosotros y nuestros hijos. Júntense a nuestra causa de oportunidad para todos, a la causa de todos que aman la libertad y a la causa noble de los Estados Unidos de América. In any language, my message will be an optimistic one because I am certain that we can make the decades just ahead the greatest time ever to be alive in this world. That chance, that hope requires the best that is in us, and I will give it my all. I will campaign as I would serve, going everywhere, speaking to everyone, keeping my word, facing the issues without flinching, and staying true to what I believe. I will take nothing and no one for granted. I will run with heart. I will run to win. It begins here and now And I’m asking for your vote. Thank you. God Bless You.

One of the greatest economic transformations in American history is less than a decade old and it's happening right here in Ohio. Fracking and other new drilling techniques to unlock vast shale oil and gas reserves deep underground have given new life to cities like Youngstown and Canton. They've produced new wealth for property owners throughout Ohio, but especially farmers. They've put hope in the hearts of workers who've found manufacturing jobs with better pay and benefits. You would think leaders in Washington would want to take every advantage of this newfound economic boon. But instead, the Obama administration is blocking pipelines, export opportunities and access to drilling on federal lands. If the Obama administration and other liberals had their way, Ohio workers, landowners and taxpayers wouldn't benefit from fracking at all. This is a classic example of how bad government policy gets in the way of Americans who are just trying to find good-paying and secure jobs. This isn't limited to the energy industry, either. The Obama administration jams American workplaces with unnecessary rules and regulations, restrictions on land and energy use and the highest tax rates in the industrialized world. And in the end, it costs Ohio families and households a chance at the right to rise. Underneath this state lies the Marcellus shale formation, the largest natural gas repository in the United States and the second largest in the world. Deeper still, the Utica shale formation yields large amounts of natural gas, natural gas liquids, and crude oil from wells in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania. These energy resources can be extracted in an environmentally responsible way and provide new opportunity for Ohio. The oil-and-gas industry now employs more than 200,000 people in Ohio -- and promises more still. Long-term, oil and gas in Ohio will create new opportunities, if we support it. The reason is simple: An abundant supply of affordable American-made energy helps fuel factories and powers offices at far cheaper prices, making American companies more competitive. This is a game-changer. Now, the industrial Midwest can take on China. In a recent survey, slightly more than half of U.S. manufacturers with $1 billion or more in revenue said they were considering bringing jobs home from China in the future -- already, 16 percent have. Cheaper energy is also critical to bringing down prices at the pump. The fracking revolution has helped us pump millions of gallons of oil -- helping relieve the high cost of filling up. Now is the time to pursue smart policies so that we can reindustrialize our economy and lift up working families who have been squeezed by stagnating wages and high prices. Let's start by getting rid of the roadblocks to our energy economy -- anything that keeps newfound energy supplies from reaching potential markets. The Obama administration has continually blocked the Keystone XL pipeline, which is an essential piece of energy infrastructure. Getting pipelines built to carry energy safely through the United States is something the Obama administration should champion, not block. Second, we have to lift the limits on fracking on federal land. Some of the largest oil shale deposits in the world lie beneath federal property, but energy development on federal lands has dropped by 27 percent since 2008. President Barack Obama's Interior Department recently unveiled new anti-fracking regulations that could threaten American energy production. These rules are a stepping stone to even more stringent regulations of energy production, whether on federal lands or elsewhere. Congress should block them and force the Obama administration to pull back. Third, we need to end the decades-old policies that have hindered the export of liquefied natural gas and effectively banned the export of oil. Capitalizing on our status as the world's largest producer of natural gas and soon-to-be largest producer of oil will reduce our trade deficit and create even more manufacturing jobs. Finally, we should make sure the opportunities from new energy supplies are available to everyone. That will require better education and training programs to equip people with the technical skills they need for energy production and other manufacturing-based industries. If we put the right policies in place, the energy revolution can contribute to an American economic renaissance and rebirth of manufacturing that will strengthen middle class families here in Ohio, and everywhere across the nation. We have to get this right. The stakes couldn't be higher.


A month ago, in a speech to the Chicago Global Forum, I argued that the Obama administration’s foreign policy could best be summarized this way: weak and uncertain. The administration indulges our enemies and attacks our friends. In the weeks that followed that speech, the problem has gotten worse and the world has only become more dangerous. Consider American policy towards Iran, a nation that has waged a relentless campaign of terror and war-by-proxy against U.S. troops and American allies for more than three decades. The administration believes Iran will become a responsible partner for peace once it signs up to a deal that largely leaves in place its nuclear infrastructure. In a region that is in a near-constant state of conflict — with Iran as a primary instigator — this approach is foolish. It is clear that nothing — not public opinion, not opposition from his own party in Congress, and not even the facts — will deter President Obama from a potentially risky agreement that may well allow Iran to intimidate the entire Middle East, menace Israel, and, most of all, threaten America. This policy choice is a reflection of the way Obama has handled a range of foreign-policy matters. Instead of projecting American determination and leadership, he has either withdrawn from the stage or chosen to trust our enemies. When it comes to ISIS, Obama has threatened action but has delivered little support to those fighting against this menace. We are watching helplessly as Yemen – once considered by the Obama administration to be a reliable partner in the war against al-Qaeda and other terror networks — falls into anarchy. And Iraq continues to fall further under Iran’s orbit — a surrender of American influence and an insult to the troops and commanders who sacrificed mightily to stabilize that country. Even when presented with evidence of treachery committed by the Iranians, the Obama administration turns the other way. Iran was caught cheating on previous agreements related to its nuclear program; Obama officials dismissed the matter, calling it a “mistake” by a low-level employee. Such is the state of the administration’s inability to conduct basic diplomacy: It always believes Iran’s excuses, but never its threats. Those threats keep coming. Iran’s leaders condemn America and its allies routinely. Iran’s supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, did so just last Saturday: “Death to America,” he said. This is supposed to be a reliable partner? The rest of the world must wonder what it takes to enrage the White House. Apparently, all you have to do is reelect a leader whom the president doesn’t like. Israel’s elections should be something to celebrate. If only the rest of the region were able to hold peaceful and vibrant multi-party elections . . .  Yet instead of recognizing Prime Minister Netanyahu’s reelection and the achievement of Israel’s multi-party, multi-ethnic democracy, the White House issued half-hearted congratulations. Then Obama threatened to downgrade the U.S.-Israel relationship and permit a series of anti-Israel resolutions to pass the United Nations Security Council without firm American opposition. But this is consistent with a pattern of diplomatic scolding of Israel. The Obama administration has insisted that Israel make concessions just to get the Palestinian leaders to the negotiating table. The Obama administration treats announcements of new apartment buildings in Jerusalem like acts of aggression. The Obama administration anonymously insults Israeli leaders personally and then pretends that such insults were never authorized. This is no way to treat an ally. Conducting the foreign policy of a great nation requires maturity and a strategic sense of America’s long-term interests. This is no time for schoolyard antics. With Israel, those interests lie in a firm alliance. Israel and America must work together to build a more prosperous and hopeful future for the region. A state for the Palestinian people, side by side with Israel, will be possible only if the Palestinian people are represented by leaders committed to delivering on the promises made at the negotiating table. Ultimately, the most fruitful efforts for peace come in moments when America’s word is trusted and America’s commitment is certain. Anyone who claims to pursue peace in the region — especially between Israel and her neighbors — must know that Israel will make no sacrifices for peace when she feels threatened. The future success of American foreign policy in the Middle East — and the world — will require a fresh approach. One that takes to heart the realities of the region. One that rebuilds the friendships we once enjoyed. One that reminds our enemies of our determination. And one that fundamentally believes that when America leads, the world is more stable and America’s security is more certain.
 We don't need another president who merely holds the top spot

   among the pampered elites of Washington. We need a president willing to

   challenge and disrupt the whole culture in our nation's capital. And I

   will be that president!



   I will campaign as I would serve, going everywhere, speaking to

   everyone, keeping my word, facing the issues without flinching and

   staying true to what I believe. I will take nothing and no one for

   granted. I will run with heart, and I will run to win!



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



 Thank you. Thank you all.



 Workforce participation, the lowest rate since the 1980 period,

   budget deficits as far as the eye can see. People are unemployed

   permanently, the highest level of poverty in a long while.



   We're on the wrong track for sure. And then you look at the rest of the

   world, where we're no longer a dependable ally. Our friends no longer

   can trust us, and our enemies no longer fear us.



   And so changing that direction, I think, is the first responsibility of

   the next president. And I have the leadership skills, I think, to make

   it possible to restore economic growth, lift people's spirits and

   secure America's position in the world, where we can create a more

   peaceful world.  And it's based on my life experience.



   Look, I'm not -- I'm not a -- you know, I've done things. I've formed a

   business. I've lived overseas. And I've been a pretty extraordinarily

   good governor for eight years, at a time when you were rewarded for

   doing things. And I did them.



 Yes.



 Sure.



 Well, for starters, I'm blessed to be George and Barbara Bush's

   son. And long before people knew them, I was blessed because they've

   been extraordinary parents. All the mistakes I've made in my life --

   and I've made a few, like we all do -- they're my own doing. I can't

   blame my parents because they gave me love. They taught me the virtues

   of -- that lead to a life of purpose and meaning.



   And I love my brother, too. So look, I don't -- I don't sit on a couch

   and get all hung up about this. I'm blessed to be Jeb Bush. But I know

   if I'm going to be successful, I have to make my own way as a

   candidate. No one -- no one wins this by, you know, heredity. No one --

   no one expects that. I don't expect it.



   We've got 15 maybe people running for president of the United States,

   and the person that's going to win the Republican nomination's going to

   be the next president. And they're going to earn it. And that's what I

   intend to do.



 Well, Sean, first of all, I've been a candidate for less than 24

   hours.



 So I've -- my mission now is to tell my story, to show my

   leadership skills because I was a reform-minded conservative. I did cut

   taxes every year. I balanced budgets every year.



   When I left, there were $9 billion in reserves. When I started, it was

   close to a billion dollars. We reduced the state government workforce

   by 13,000. We were one of two states during my eight years to go to AAA

   bond rating.



   And think of the United States today. We've actually -- the federal

   government's bond rating is AA. What a sorry state of affairs because

   we have runaway spending and huge budget deficits, and now the world no

   longer trusts the United States as being serious about dealing with its

   fiscal issues. So I reformed things that made it harder for people to

   rise up.



   And the things I'm most proud of, by the way, is reforming our

   education system. We have -- we've had the greatest gains in learning

   in the United States, particularly with low-income kids.



   If Republicans are going to win, we need to be for everybody, not just

   for those that have already made it. We have to be on the side of

   people that have high hopes for themselves and their children.



   And today, we're creating barriers for people's aspirations. And my

   record of government, I think, shows the path of what could happen in

   Washington, D.C.



 Absolutely. Governments should grow no faster than people's

   ability to pay for it. In fact, personal income growth, family income

   should be the highest priority for the next president.



   It's why I'm advocating creating a strategy to achieve 4 percent

   growth. If we grow at 2 percent, this so-called new normal that makes

   me queasy to even think about it, the demands on government will

   overwhelm us and will create perpetual poverty for those that are stuck

   in poverty and the middle will continue to be squeezed.



   The great challenge for our country is to become young and dynamic and

   aspirational again. And that should be -- the lessons of Florida could

   be applied to Washington, D.C.



 Yes.



 Yes.



 Well, first of all, it's heartbreaking.



 Put aside the politics of this, it's heartbreaking because if

   you're stuck in poverty or you're stuck in a sense you know your

   children are not going to have as much opportunity as you have, it's in

   your heart you feel this, then you can't dream big dreams. You're not

   -- you're not going to be able to live the kind of life that we want

   everybody to live.



   So the challenge isn't so much a political one, it's to be on the side

   of people that want a better life. And we've proven -- the one thing

   that Barack Obama and I would say Hillary Clinton in their philosophy,

   the people of their ilk, have proven is that the progressive agenda run

   amok has failed.



   No one could say that we haven't underfunded these programs. I mean,

   they've -- there's been an explosion of spending. And yet people

   believe we're still in a recession because they are. And yet people

   think we're on the wrong track because we are.



 Great question. First, 4 percent growth rather than 2 percent

   growth creates a -- far more than any exotic form of taxation. Mayor de

   Blasio or Hillary Clinton's views on taxation, I'm not sure what her

   plans are, but I'm guessing -- I can -- I'm just speculating that she's

   going to call for higher taxes.



 ... big tax increase. And all those -- no amount of taxes

   proposed like that will come close to high growth. If we create high

   growth, we start the papillon (ph) -- the process of rebalancing.



   But we have to spend less. We have to spend less. And it's not just on

   so-called discretionary spending. The one place where I think we need

   to spend more is our military. We can -- we can reform how the military

   works. We can spend less with the hierarchy inside the Pentagon.



   But we can't -- we can't cut with these sequesters, our military, to

   gut it, because no one -- even if -- even if we were strong as it

   relates to our word and we were engaged in the world, if we don't have

   a military that's the strongest and best supported and best trained

   troops, then we can't back it up.



 I think you can shift -- in education, you can shift a lot of the

   -- a lot of the power back to the states. Certainly. as it relates to

   EPA, a lot of the delegated authority that used to exist should go back

   to the states. HHS -- we should -- we should create much less power in

   Washington for the delivery of health care and the regulation of health

   care and shift it back to the states.



   There's a lot that you can do. And I think there are parts of the

   government that are no longer relevant inside of the Department of

   Commerce that does a lot of things that just don't relate to the 21st

   century.



   So what I proved as governor was that you can cut spending and still

   prioritize towards the things that matter. And that kind of budget

   process should work.



   By the way, I think we need budget reform in Washington. When you talk

   to people in Washington that have been there a long time and they start

   talking their language, it's like speaking, you know, French, which I

   don't ...



   (CROSSTALK)



 In Washington, a budget grows like this. That's a flat -- that's

   the base budget.



 So if you -- if you cut it like that, it's still growing at 5

   percent per year. That's a cut and that's outrageous. The world's

   coming to an end.



 I want to eliminate the budget that makes -- that's a sham, that

   only creates growing budget. What we need is a family budget for

   Washington, D.C. When you cut something, it means that you're spending

   less, not cut -- you know, instead of growing at 8 percent, grow at now

   5 percent. That's not a cut. That's a 5 percent growth.



 Sure. Look, I would prefer to see the glass half-full. I was

   touting the fact that governors have to make decisions. Senators don't.

    They can hide behind the collective body. I wasn't calling out any

   particular senator.



   But the simple fact is governors have to balance budgets in this

   country, and they have to make decisions. And they have to do things

   that sometimes aren't popular. And they also have to bring people

   together to try to solve problems.



   So put me in the category of that side of politics because I think it's

   the place where presidents need to be.



 Yes.



 It's a little awkward.



   (LAUGHTER)



 I mean, look, he's a great guy. I admire him a lot. He's got a

   great family. And it's a little awkward when you have a good friend

   that's running for the same position. But that's just the way it is. It

   doesn't -- it doesn't bother me a bit. It's a ...



 Absolutely. And I'm friends with other people running, as well.



   I don't -- I don't wake up each day all angry. It's not in my nature to

   be angry. I'm very hopeful and optimistic about our country. I honestly

   believe we're on the greatest -- we're in the greatest -- verge of the

   greatest time to be alive. I don't focus too much about what other

   people are saying or thinking.



   I'm focusing on how I can lift people's spirits with a message of hope

   and optimism about the future and then give them a sense it's not just

   jibber-jabber. It's not just talking. I mean actually that I can do it,

   that I've done it as governor -- I can do it again.



   (CROSSTALK)



 Yes.



 Yes. Well, look...



 I think Washington's dysfunctional. That's my take.  Washington

   is not working. We need a Republican president, and we can get those

   things solved.



 This supposedly risk-averse administration is also running us

   straight in the direction of the greatest risk of all, military

   inferiority. It will go on automatically until a president steps in to

   rebuild our armed forces and take care of our troops and our veterans!



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



 And they have my word I will do it!



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



 This supposedly risk-averse administration is also running us

   straight in the direction of the greatest risk of all, military

   inferiority. It will go on automatically until a president steps in to

   rebuild our armed forces and take care of our troops and our veterans!



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



 And they have my word I will do it!



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



   SUPPORTERS: USA! USA! USA!



 We keep dependable friends in this world by being dependable

   ourselves. I will rebuild our vital friendships, and that starts by

   standing with the brave democratic state of Israel.



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



 Well, look, the president creates a strawman. He says that

   anybody that doesn't agree with him is a warmonger. The simple fact is

   that we've had a bipartisan consensus in foreign policy since the end

   of World War II, and it was American leadership that created peace and

   security and did it in alliance with our friends.



   And so if you look at the world today, think of a country where our

   relations are better today than they were the day that Barack Obama and

   Hillary Clinton took office.



 And there's only -- it's a question.



 Yes.



 I give you two.



 Iran and Cuba.



 Yes. Our relations with them are better under Barack Obama.  In

   all the rest of the world, our relations are worse.



 You got me nervous there!



   (APPLAUSE)



 Exactly. It's the wrong approach, and I was -- I was pleased to

   see Senator Corker today send a letter to the president saying, Stop

   unilaterally giving things away. Stay with what your objective was

   three or four years ago, which we've long ago moved away from.



   The Iranians play us like a Stradivarius violin. They just keep waiting

   and waiting until the deadlines, and then we concede, and we're going

   to end up with Iran being a nuclear threshold state. And that is going

   to create danger not just in the region, but that -- that already

   exists.



 You should never take the military option off the table.



 I don't know. It's -- it's -- it's kind of bizarre, to be honest

   with you, to moral -- to create moral equivalence between our faith,

   which is a freedom-loving, peaceful faith, and the hijacking of Islam

   through the -- in the form of these radical terrorists.



   And call it for what it is. And if you call it for what it is, create a

   strategy then to take it out. We don't have a strategy as it relates to

   ISIS. We are reacting to events on the ground, and little by little,

   doing things, some of which are good. There have been some successes in

   -- in using drones to take out terrorists. I'm -- I'm all for that.



   But we need a strategy to -- to tighten the noose around them. And we

   need it -- we need to do it not just unilaterally, we need to do it

   with -- with the -- with the nations of the neighborhood. And our

   relations, back to this very basic point...



 ... our relations now with the countries that we should count on

   to create a coalition because it's in their interest to take out ISIS,

   as well, is at an all-time low, the relationships with Turkey, with

   Egypt, Jordan ...



 ... is, you know, strongly ...



 And certainly the Persian Gulf countries. We need to rebuild

   those relationships for our own national security.



 Do we have to talk about that again?



 Yes.



 Exactly.



 Look, I think -- I think the lessons of history are important for

   anybody. We can -- we can live in the past or we can learn from the

   past to be able to lead in the future. And I think the lessons of

   history are the United States needs to be engaged in the world. Imagine

   what it would be like if we just decided to leave -- leave Germany

   after -- you know, after World War II.



 Or we decided, the Korean War's over, OK, we're going home. We

   would have had chaos.



 And we're still there, and it's created peace and prosperity for

   ourselves and for our friends. And that's the lesson. It's not that

   we're -- we have to be the world's policeman, but we have to lead. But

   for us, who? Who is going to -- to create a more peaceful world if we

   don't lead?



   And that's -- that -- that is what I think that the president has

   missed. And frankly, Hillary Clinton was secretary of state for four

   years. It's like we don't even hear about this anymore.



 But she was there for four years.



 And -- and she was part of this. And I think it's the wrong

   approach, and it is out of the mainstream of thinking that has existed

   for the last 50 years in our country.



 Look, we need to -- we need to confront China and engage with

   them at the same time because they're all -- they're a threat, but

   they're also -- they also -- you know, we benefit from economic

   activity with them, as well. It's a lot more complex. But we can't pull

   back and expect them not to continue to move forward.



   As it relates to Russia, it's clear. I just got back from Germany and

   Poland and Estonia, and there's a -- there's a yearning for American

   leadership there because they see the direct threat that exists,

   particularly in Estonia and Poland, where it is not just something to

   talk about, they see the threat each and every day of -- of -- of

   Russian planes flying or telling vessels no longer to lay cable from

   Sweden to Lithuania.



   They want the United States to be engaged. We should forward lean.  We

   should provide defensive weapons for the Ukraine. We should make it

   clear if Russia continues to do what it's been doing ...



 ... that their -- missile defense in Poland, for sure. And we

   should also have -- we should -- we should -- you know, state what our

   -- what the sanction policy will be going forward if Russia acts.



   And that's how you -- that's how you detain Putin. If you do nothing

   and you pull back and you create uncertainty, he will continue to move

   forward.



 Yes.



 I don't think that's necessary.



 Because I don't think we need it.



 I don't think we need it. It's not the law.



 I think it was appropriate at the time, given what we -- you

   know, the uncertainty. We were under attack. I think it was

   appropriate.  It was also appropriate to change the policies once --

   once -- once we had enough history.



 With North American resources and American ingenuity, we can

   finally achieve energy security for this nation. And with presidential

   leadership, we can make it happen within five years!



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



 In this country of ours, the most improbable things can happen,

   as well. Take that from a guy who met his first president on the day he

   was born and his second on the day he was brought home from the

   hospital.



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



   (COMMERCIAL BREAK)



   (NEWSBREAK)



   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)



 Campaigns aren't easy, and they're not supposed to be. And I know

   that there are a lot of good people running for president -- quite a

   few, in fact. And not one of us deserves the job by right of resume,

   party, seniority, family or family narratives. It's nobody's turn. It's

   everybody's test. And it's wide open, exactly as a contest for

   president should be!



   (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



 In many ways, I do. If you listen to her talk, she has embraced

   the progressive agenda. She believes that -- you know, she's -- she's

   already starting the rhetoric of dividing the country, rather than

   lifting our spirits. She doesn't talk about the kind of economic growth

   that would create meaningful income rises for the middle. She talks

   about more government programs.



   Her -- look, she's a formidable candidate, and she is -- she's going to

   be tough, no question about it. But the simple fact is that we need --

   we need a dramatic change if we're going to grow economically, where

   people can have disposable income to decide what they want to do. And I

   think the stark difference will be clear. And I think a conservative

   can win in 2016 if we're hopeful and optimistic rather than reactionary

   to how bad things are. We offer a compelling alternative to the path --



 Solutions. Solutions on taxes, on regulation, which is now

   stifling the ability for investment in our own country, dealing in an

   honest way with our entitlement challenges, embracing the energy

   revolution in our midst.



 Look at the possibility of being energy secure in five years

   which we could do with Canada, Mexico, and the United States. And the

   ability then to project America's presence in the world in a completely

   different way, this is huge.



   And yet the left wants to push those aspirations down. They want to

   divide ups. They want us to be increasingly dependent upon government

   rather than lift people up. And I think we have a case that we can make

   for people that are stuck in poverty. I think Republicans that are

   successful ought to challenge the orthodoxy of our education system

   that is just holding people back, challenging the job training programs

   that are holding people back, a regulatory system that makes it harder

   for an entrepreneur in the inner city to even start a business.



 I think she needs to answer questions just like I'm going to do

   in about 30 minutes.



 I think she needs to do the exact same thing that candidates

   running for president do -- talk to the press, be open. Look, I'm going

   to make mistakes, I can guarantee you that. But I'm not going to hide

   from people that don't agree with me. And if there are people in the

   press, I'm going to say I'm sorry, you can't come. I'm sorry I'm not

   going to answer questions. I'm only going to answer the questions I

   already know what the question is. That's ridiculous. And that's what

   she's done.



 I hope I did.



   (LAUGHTER)



 I don't think I did, though. Based on my previous experience I'm

   pretty sure I didn't.



 Look, Benghazi will become clear. Trey Gowdy is going to get to

   the bottom of it. And it will be done in a fair way and she'll be held

   to account and so will the administration.



   As it relates to all these other things, that's what campaigns are

   about. I have been scrutinized like nobody's business. And I'm sure it

   will continue on. That's fine, that's fair. As long as I get a fair

   chance to, you know, explain the things --



 Exactly. She needs to have the same level of scrutiny that

   everybody else has. And if that happens people then can make up their

   own minds.



 She's smart. I think she's smart. I think she loves her country.

   I don't ascribe bad motives for people that I don't agree with.  But as

   a senator, I think she passed -- she has her name on three laws in

   eight years. And as secretary of state, in all honesty, the things

   she's known for, the reset, the pulling back of our commitments, Libya,

   put aside Benghazi, Libya in general, it turns out it was a complete

   failure.



 All of these things haven't worked out. I honestly don't know

   what her successes are. I know she's smart. I know she's tough. I'm not

   discounting her ability to be a good candidate. But her record of

   accomplishment compared to a governor who cut taxes every year and

   reduced the state government workforce, went to AAA bond rating because

   we were frugal and we had fiscal integrity, created an environment -- I

   didn't create it, but created an environment of 1.3 million jobs more

   than any other state other than California. I'll put that record up

   against Hillary Clinton's any day of the week.



 My life began in many ways when I was in Leon Guanajuato, Mexico,

   where I met my life. It was love at first sight. For the young guys

   here, it does happen. Trust me.



   (END VIDEO CLIP)



   (COMMERCIAL BREAK)



 I'm sorry. I shouldn't have done that.



   (LAUGHTER)



 It means making sure that people -- that coming here legally is

   easier than coming illegally, that we create a system where we have

   enhanced border security, that we have a system using technology in

   every means possible to deal with 40 percent of illegal immigrants that

   are here who came with a legal visa and just stayed, a great nation for

   all sorts of reasons, national security reasons, and many need to know

   where those folks are. We ought to delegate authority to local and

   state law enforcement.



 I think we need to do both. But the first priority has to be we

   have to create a secure border. If we had a guest worker program along

   with securing the border, there would be people coming seasonally

   coming to do the work in the fields and other things that are

   essentially for our economy and then go back home. If we don't have

   that, if we don't have a guest worker program, then people are stuck

   here and they stay here illegally.



   I think a system that allows for both but the first priority being

   border security. And I would add, this is something that I've advocated

   that hasn't gotten enough news, I think, which is we ought to delegate

   more authority to local law enforcement on this. We have, you know,

   20,000 border patrol agents. But there's a lot of places in this

   country where the eye and ears and the trained professionals at the

   local and state level can't do anything about people that are here

   illegally. And I think by having the proper training and expanding the

   authority we could create a much better and more secure --



 Yes.



 Yes. The plan that I proposed, and it's there for anybody that

   wants to read it. It's called "Immigration Wars." It's a book, you

   know, that I put out a couple years ago with Clint Bolick. The plan

   says you earn legal status. You get a provisional work permit. You

   don't receive government assistance. You pay a fine. You learn English.

   You don't receive any federal government assistance. And you work, you

   don't commit crimes. And over an extended period of time you earn legal

   status. You don't cut in front of someone who has been patiently

   waiting --



 Exactly.



 Yes, I would. And I would replace it with one that recognized if

   you came here as a child and your parents came illegally, I think we

   should treat the child a little different than the person who came

   illegally. I think that's the American way. So yesterday in my speech I

   got protested by the so called Dream act kids. And I think we ought to

   fix that for people that have been here for long period of time. I

   don't if they liked what I said or not, but they thankfully left in the

   midst -- they stepped on my beautiful line of my mother which was the

   only part I didn't like about the --



 Common Core standards are standards in reading and math, not

   anything else. They're higher in most cases than all but a handful of

   states. And I think it ought to be state driven. In fact if I was

   elected president I would work with Congress if it's not already done,

   because there's the reauthorization of the K-12 law will hopefully

   pass, that will prohibit direct or indirect involvement by the federal

   government in the creation of content, curriculum, or standards. This

   should be a local and state issue, not a federal issue.



 And 45 states voluntarily came together with these standards.

   That's the commonality. It's not --



 Yes. If New Hampshire wants to create local standards, which they

   do here, I don't have a problem with that. What I want is higher

   standards. And, frankly, standards by themselves are meaningless unless

   you have school choice, more accountability, a different consequence

   between failure. Parents whose kids are trapped in failed schools ought

   to be given other options public and private.



 I want states to decide that. But I would take the federal money

   that goes to the states right now. If New Hampshire want to create a

   state wide voucher program, Title One money ought to run with that

   child.



 Libertarian.



 Good friend.



 Rich guy.



   (LAUGHTER)



 Very smart. Fiery.



 Really talented.



 A fighter.



 A real Texan.



   (LAUGHTER)



 Smart guy, too. Look, all these guys, they are my friends.  It's

   hard to say anything bad about them. I really admire the people that

   are running for president.



 People love the horse race. The press loves to comment on

   comments and try to interpret them as being attacks. We'll see. It's

   very competitive, and my guess is it's like playing basketball without

   a referee, maybe. A couple of elbows under the boards.



 I believe in traditional marriage. I hope the Supreme Court rules

   that way. I think it's been a solid element of our foundation. I don't

   think we should discriminate based on sexual preferences.



   (APPLAUSE)



 Traditional marriage should be the foundation of a just society.



 I'm totally prolife.



 I believe that there should be exceptions for rape, incest, and

   the life of the mother. But when I was governor I was the most prolife

   governor in the state's history.



 States ought to decide this, but I think it's an incredibly

   slippery slope, and I think the health damages to this are very, very

   dangerous.



 Absolutely. In Florida, you know who leads the nation in

   concealed weapons permits by far?



   (APPLAUSE)



 Over a million. It's Florida. And it creates a more -- less

   violent society. And crime goes down when law abiding citizens that

   don't commit crimes have guns.



 I think there's a debate about that. I do think the great story

   is that we've reduced our carbon footprint not because of anything

   government has done. We've reduced it because of American ingenuity and

   American know-how being applied to increase the natural gas consumption

   in this country that's reduced carbon emissions.



 Sure, absolutely. My fingerprint is different. My life experience

   is different. I started my life journey in a different way. I went to

   the University of Texas. I graduated in two years. I fell in love with

   a --



 Yes. It's possible, guys, I promise you.



   (APPLAUSE)



 I'm a reform-minded conservative that led the state of Florida, a

   purple state, in a direction applying conservative values that made

   life better for everybody, not just those who have already made it. And

   I think we can apply those same principles in Washington with the

   proper leadership. And this should be the most extraordinary time to be

   alive.  We should be the world's superpower economically, and we should

   be the leader in the world as it relates to foreign policy, and we're

   not right now. If we change directions our children and grandchildren

   are going to have opportunities of abundance.



 Thank you, Sean.



   (APPLAUSE)



 Thank you.



