Richard, thank you. And thank you, all of you, for being here today. I appreciate it very much—appreciate the forum and appreciate the input from a number of the members of the Council that I was fortunate enough to receive both as my time as governor and in this campaign thus far. The United States faces problems today all around the world. We could catalogue them. And they’re worse now than they’ve been almost everywhere since 2008. I think our biggest problem, America’s largest problem, we face a fundamental and a crippling lack of leadership. The American people feel it. And their anger, while I believe comes from many different causes, the root of their anger is the crippling sense they feel of a lack of leadership here in Washington, D.C. It reminds me very much of the late 1970s, right here in 2015. If you look back then, Americans were angry and unhappy as well—failure in Vietnam, a weak economy, hostages in Iran, and a president who told us at the time that we had to settle for what we had and that to aspire to something greater was unrealistic. We were, I think at that time, a depressed and a fearful nation, fearful that things would not get better not only around the world but here at home as well. And I think we need today what we got back then. We had a president who finally put American interests firmly first—firmly first—in a dangerous world, no further apologies for American history or for our goals around the world; a president who fought for the American people first, for their protection and their interests first, not for the U.N. crowd, not for the New York Times editorial page, but for the admiration and respect of the American people. Those very same people, those crowds he was not playing to, did what those crowds normally do when they’re not played to. They ridiculed him. They ridiculed him as a cowboy. They blatantly said that he would start a nuclear war. They said he would leave the world, if he became president, less safe, less stable, or for some of them a world that wouldn’t even be here because of nuclear annihilation. Of course, what happened because of his leadership was the longest sustained period of economic growth in our recent history, and peace and stability in the world, and the end of the Cold War. That’s what strong, principled leadership can do. That’s what it did under Ronald Reagan and that’s what it can do again now. The fact is I had a political science professor at the University of Delaware who gave me two great lessons about politics, and two phrases that he gave me. I’ll talk about the first one. He talked about how essential listening was to leadership. He used to tell me all the time that great leaders listen much more than they speak. And I said to him, why do you think that makes the most effective leaders? And he said, because without listening, he said, you won’t have any followers. He Well, you know, first off, we’re inheriting a situation which has been allowed to get so far out of control that it limits our options, and that’s the first concern. But your question is about what you do now, not how to look back in retrospect and what you might have done differently. I would tell you this, that I would hope that France invokes Article 5. This is an attack on one that’s an attack on all. We need to be really clear about this. It seems like that Mrs. Clinton won’t use the term “radical Islamic terrorism” because she thinks somehow that this will be insulting to the rest of the Muslim world. I think it’s clarifying. See, if you say that you’re going to war with radical Islamic terrorism, then by definition you’re not going to war with the rest of Islam. In my state, as I said, we have the second-largest Muslim American community in the country, and I’ve appointed Muslim Americans to high-ranking positions in my administration, to the judiciary. These are good, faithful Americans. Confusion is only created by the use of euphemisms. So let’s talk about, first, what we need to go to war with. It is a Well, listen, the trap is only set to the extent that you walk in. A trap is only a problem to the extent you walk into it, Jerry, right? I mean, I think the fact is that this has to be done really carefully. And that’s why I think working with NATO is not the only thing we need to do. I think we need to work with our Arab allies in the Middle East as well. And, quite frankly, those Arab allies right now are suspicious of what American interests really are in the Middle East, and what our motives truly are, and whether they can count on us for friendship. They look at what’s happened with the Iranian deal. They look at what’s happened in our public interaction with Israel. And in some of those capitals I think they’re wondering whether they can count on the American resolve any longer. So I don’t think this is only a NATO operation. I think you have to work hard to bring our Arab allies into it as well to avoid the very trap that ISIS is looking to set. Yeah, well—(laughter). You know, I think we could get there eventually, but he’d have to understand the limits of our patience. And he’s reaching the limits of our patience with his adventurism, and so I don’t think we’d be fast friends. (Laughter.) Not as long as he wanted to continue to prop up Assad, no. His priorities are different. And this is where some other candidates I think have a naïve thought about this. I don’t believe President Putin has any real interest in combating ISIS. His role in Syria is to prop up Assad and to keep him there and to work with the Iranians to do that. And I don’t think he has any other real interest in it, even after ISIS attacks on his own people. I don’t think that’s his priority. He has limited capability and he is focusing that limited capability on his top priority, which is, in that instance, you know, propping up Assad. No, because I think the premise is faulty. Not everyone will focus on ISIS. Others, like the Iranians, like the Russians, will focus on solidifying Assad’s position not just for the next few months but for the long term. And so you can’t have an agreement with someone whose goals and objectives in the agreement are completely different than yours, and I don’t believe we’re at a point at the moment—now, maybe Russia will come around to a different point of view but I don’t see that happening any time soon, and certainly not with the Iranians either. So, no, I think the premise of the question is faulty so, yeah, no, I don’t agree with that. Sounds good. Listen, I’m— I am. I’m a wallflower, so that will be hard for me—(laughter)—but we’ll see what we can do. Oh, there you go, as did I. Right. Well, a few things. First off—I’ll start at the end and then work back up. I think that they’re spending their time on that for two reasons, one because they see it at the moment as a greater threat to them. And secondly, they don’t think they can count on us. And I think they have good reason to think they can’t count on us. Our policies at best have been erratic. Our actions seem to differ with our words in terms of our interaction with those allies. And I think if you spoke to the Jordanians, in addition to the Saudis and the Emirates and the Egyptians, that they would say the same thing. They don’t really know what American policy is. They’re afraid we’re playing footsie with Iran. They don’t what that’s going to mean for their long-term interests in the region. And I think they believe that American resolve is only as good as the next poll that comes out from Quinnipiac or Marist. And as long as that’s the case, then why would they want to get in league with us on this when they also feel like they have competing priorities and interests like Yemen? On the Syrian part, that’s the part that makes what’s happened over the last two years or more—makes this even more complicated because I don’t think that there is a coherent opposition at the moment. And, you know, the problem, though, is that Assad himself is, I think, one of the great causes of ISIS and one of the great irritants through the way he’s conducted his policy towards his own people. And so the president has now left us in a really difficult situation. And the president’s solution is what it always is, which is don’t do anything. Don’t do anything. Let other people do stuff and let’s see what happens. Let’s see how it shakes out. But meantime ISIS is getting stronger and they’re not contained. Their scope is not contained. Their range is not contained. And it’s only going to get greater to the extent that they’re not being pressured there. So it is—I don’t have an answer to who is the group that you would put in charge of Syria. The problem is that, given how badly it’s deteriorated and how long the president has ignored this festering problem, he has left us with a situation that is, at best, on your best day, too complex and too problematic for a, you know, two-minute answer, and one that’s going to take a lot more time to figure out. But, long term, Assad staying doesn’t help the ISIS problem and creates other problems in the Middle East as well. No, I don’t think that’s the case. Now, listen, on—concerning the fight on terrorism, there are a lot of similarities, yes. I think that all the tools that we need to have should be made available to us and that we have to make sure that we police those who use the tools. See, the argument that we had this past spring and summer was, you know, that somehow the tools were inherently faulty. They’re not. The tools are effective and proven to be effective. There are always going to be folks operating in every sphere of life who are going to color outside the lines. We see it every day. There are bad doctors, there are bad lawyers, there are bad accountants, there are bad athletes, right, in every walk of life, yet what we decided to do this summer was to throw tested and proven effective tools out because of allegations—not even proof, but allegations—that somehow those tools could be used in a way that was unconstitutional. I still haven’t seen the case made that anything that was done was unconstitutional. And it’s usually, when that case is made, it’s made by people who don’t have the first damn idea what they’re talking about, not the first idea of how to use these tools. You know, you hear about the metadata collection operation at the NSA and you hear people talk about that. And they extrapolate it to, you know, someone was reading your emails with the grandmother and, you know, listening in on your phone calls with your wife. But of course, none of that was going on. And none of that had anything to do with the metadata program. But, you know, this administration had an agenda. Their agenda was to ratchet that down. And they waited for a political opportunity to do that where they could haul other people into it. So on the terrorism issue, I would say that I think President George W. Bush in combatting terrorism and stopping attacks on American soil, I think that record’s pretty good. And as one of those people who participated as a United States attorney in the law enforcement side of that, there’s not one thing that happened on my watch that not only I’m—that I’d be ashamed of, there’s nothing that happened on my watch that I’m not proud of. We interdicted at least two serious and significant plots of terrorism in the immediate aftermath of 9/11 using the tools that were available to us, one regarding a shoulder-fired missile purchase and one regarding a plotted attack on Fort Dix—either of which, if had occurred, would have cost a significant number of American lives. We need a president who understand this and understands how to use these tools. On foreign policy more broadly, there’s a number of ways that I would be different than President George W. Bush. But on the fight on terror, which is specific, I think the language that might be most like Governor—or President George W. Bush’s, I’m proud to have been a member of that administration. And I’m proud of the work that we did. Well, first off, that’s one federal trial court judge. You know, he or she is welcome to their opinion. That will be appealed and go most likely all the way up to the United States Supreme Court to make that determination. And there can be potentially, depending upon what the ultimate decision turns out to be, small tweaks or changes that can be made that may be able to address some of those concerns. This was a wholesale abandonment of it. This was saying, we’re going to put this in the private sector’s hands. We’re going to count on the phone companies and the data companies to keep this information and to make it accessible to use immediately. Now, listen, I’m a former federal prosecutor that had subpoena authority. And when subpoenaed—grand jury subpoenaed materials from Verizon or AT&T it wasn’t immediate, nor will this be. And it’s a fantasy to think that the metadata program will be nearly as effective, if effective at all, under the way it’s been amended. And let’s face it, that Paris is going to prove out to be, in my opinion, in the long run, an intelligence failure. You have people from multiple countries, a synchronized attack. They didn’t get together at the Taco Bell 15 minutes before and put this thing together. And so that means it was an intelligence failure. An intelligence failure on the part of French intelligence, other European intelligence, and American intelligence. And it’s not a coincidence to me that this happened in the aftermath of restricting those programs and, remember, also demoralizing the intelligence community. That awful report that came out from the Senate Democrats at the end of last year was a complete political instrument that did nothing more than demoralize American intelligence officers all around the world. And you cannot continue to do that and expect those people are going to put themselves in harm’s way and do the dangerous, dirty work that needs to be done to get this information if you continue to demoralize them, and put them at risk, and take tools away from them at the same time. My specific concern is that it was negotiated by Barack Obama’s administration. That’s my specific concern. And I haven’t seen an agreement yet that this president’s negotiated that has been in the American interest. And so I have great skepticism about this 5(,000) or 6,000-page agreement. Do I have skepticism about trade overall? No. I want trade agreements that are fair and I want trade agreements that the American people can support. And I do think the goal of having expanded trade throughout the Pacific, especially vis-à-vis our competition with China, is an important thing. But I wouldn’t let this president negotiate to buy me a car because if he went into the car (About ?) cars? (Inaudible.) (Laughs.) Depends. Is it from Mayor de Blasio? (Laughter.) Not really. Not really. I mean, again, that kind of sounds to me like the world I wish it were, rather than the world the way it is. I don’t think they’re interested in that at the moment. Are there elements of that population that would be interested in it? Sure. But it’s not accessible to them. And if I’m asking would I use American power and authority to make it accessible to them? No. No, I wouldn’t. A number. First, it goes back to what I was saying in my remarks, is that any change to policy of that kind in the United States has to have the broad support of the American people. And the reason that—in my view—that immigration reform has failed up to this point, even the efforts that were made a summer or two ago, are because the American people don’t trust the government to actually do what they say they’re going to do. And they have pretty good reason not to. So I think the first thing we need to do is to regain the trust of the American people. And the way to do that is to enforce the laws that we have now effectively and fairly. So we need to secure our border. That’s only part of the issue. And I could go through—I’m not, so that we can get this part out of the way—I’m not a 2,000-mile wall guy, OK? (Laughter.) I don’t think that makes sense. And having had the privilege of meeting a couple of time in the last 18 months with President Pena Nieto, I don’t think no matter who asks him and how they ask him he’s paying for it. (Laughter.) Even if it’s really beautiful, I don’t think he’s paying for it. (Laughter.) But I do think that walling and fencing along the border in certain of the most heavily populated areas, you know, has some efficacy to it. Secondly, I think on the border we need to use much more of our technology—drones and stationary cameras and such—so that it doesn’t become ungodly expensive to be able to do it, but you have a way of monitoring the activity. I would be embedding a lot more FBI, ATF, and DEA agents with our border patrol folks to try to interdict drugs and guns that are coming across the border. That’s a public safety issue. But we got to remember too that our visa program is one of the biggest problems that the American people are upset about, that we invite people here for a period of time and then we don’t keep track of them, and then they stay. And listen, we’re all going to Thanksgiving this week, right? Many of us are going to be inviting—I am. I’m inviting people to my house for Thanksgiving. This would be like if I woke up, you know, on Saturday morning and I went upstairs to one of the guest rooms and they’re still there. (Laughter.) I mean, hey, invited them for Thanksgiving. I didn’t invite them for the weekend, you know? (Laughter.) And we’ve got to find a way to make sure they don’t stay. I got in a lot of trouble over this with some (measurements needed ?) because I used what—because I thought everybody in the media, like I, used English as a first language. (Laughter.) And so I said, you know, if Federal Express can figure out how to track a package from the minute it leaves my doorstep till the minute it arrives at the doorstep I want it to go to and every step in between, we should be able to do something better with the visa program. Now, of course, then this led the wonderful folks in the media to say Christie wants to track Oh, now you tell me. What are all those cameras doing back there? I’ve heard all of it. I’ve heard it. You don’t have to review all the different people who want to do it. I know. None of them, by the way, you’ll notice, have any responsibility today for ensuring the safety of the American people. So it’s easy to theorize and be an academic about this. That’s not being critical of academics. They have a role. But they don’t have any responsibility. So, you know, when the FBI director tells me he can do it, then I’ll reconsider, but not until then. Mike Chertoff used to have my job. He used to be U.S. attorney for New Jersey, my old job. And he was DHS secretary. And he’s a really bright, smart guy. But he has no responsibility today for doing what needs to be done. And it’s easy to say those things. And people on television want you to say them, because it’s the politically correct thing to say today. That’s the politically correct thing to say. Believe me, I’ve seen the e-mails I’ve gotten since I said what I said and the Facebook posts and all the rest of that stuff. I’m not, you know, deaf, dumb, and blind. The politically correct thing to say would be that. I’m not saying it, because I have a responsibility. And, by the way, the federal government has a responsibility to let me know what’s going on in my state as governor. And this administration doesn’t inform governors when they place refugees in their state. Now, most people don’t—I was on some program last week, and I said that. They said that’s impossible. I said, no, actually, it’s happening. And, you know, the president, when we were all on the phone with him last week, told the governors, when that issue was raised to the president, he said, well, we’ll try to do better. That’s wonderfully assuring if you’re a governor of a state. The fact is, the person who has the responsibility today—the primary responsibility for telling us what law enforcement’s capability is at the federal level—is the director of the FBI. The attorney general, I think, has been relatively quiet about this. The director of the FBI has spoken out and he’s spoken out before Congress that it cannot happen. They don’t have the wherewithal in their databases at the moment to be able to effectively to this. So, you know, that, to me, is determinative. It’s only not determinative if your priorities are different. Like, if your priority is to win a Nobel Peace Prize, then say, OK, that’s your priority. What you want is to get a pack on the—pat on the back from the, you know, world opinion-shapers, then say otherwise. But if your responsibility is to protect the lives of the people that you represent, and you have the top law enforcement official in the country saying I can’t vet them, it doesn’t seem to me to be a hard decision. It only becomes hard when we decide to get all politically correct with each other—we’re sending signals. Well, what happens if one of these folks come in and winds up participating in an attack that kills Americans? What kind of signals are we sending then? Because I can guarantee you there will be all kinds of people in this town who had the opinion to let folks in who will run for the hills or will all of a sudden have qualifiers—say, whoa, wait a second, I said if this and that, and this and that. And when you’re in charge, when you have to be responsible, you don’t get to run, and you don’t get to hide. And you shouldn’t run and hide now. This is my view, because I have the responsibility. And I’ve had the responsibility as a law enforcement officer, too. So, you know, when the FBI director tells me that he can do this better and more effectively, then that changes the equation. But up to this moment, we don’t have that. We have a bunch of used-to-bes who are saying it. That’s fine; they have a role to play. Their—they—their role is to write and go on television and say things. And then, when something goes the other way, they go on television and say the other way because they don’t have the responsibility to do it. So, you know, I have a great deal of respect for all the people that you named and the ones that you were going to continue to name before I interrupted you. (Laughter.) I’m sure I have great respect for them, too. (Laughter.) But—but, man, they’re not the ones who are responsible. And I’m telling you that that’s one of my biggest problems with the president. He is responsible. He should know better. And he should listen to the people he put in charge. I can’t imagine he knows more than Jim Comey about this issue. I can’t imagine a scenario under which he understands and knows this more than Jim Comey. And so, you know, sometimes, like I said in the speech, leadership’s about listening. Even if it’s contrary to exactly what you want, you need to listen. And I will tell you that if something does happen where American lives are lost, the American public both will and should be relentlessly unforgiving of those who are responsible for having done the politically correct thing and not listened to the people who knew more than they did. Thanks, Jerry.


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you New Jersey. Thank you. And thank you to Livingston. You know lots of people have asked me over the course of last week, why here? Why here? Because everything started here for me. Everything started here for me. The confidence. The education. The friends. The family. And the love that I've always felt for and from this community. When I decided to make this announcement, there wasn't any choice. I had to come home and Livingston is home for me. And I want to thank Sheila Goldclang, a dear friend of mine and my mom's and a wonderful representative of this town for welcoming us here today. And I want to thank my friend Lynn Groney. Now, listen, this is very much ... you ... some of you might be confused. You know, it may be that you thought she was being booed by her high school classmates. She was not. For reasons that I will not explain, Lynn's nickname in high school was the juice. Hence, it's not a boo, it's the juice. And Lynn, thank you for being here. I'm also here, because this is where my family raised me. You'll hear a lot, and have heard a lot from me about my mother and father. All of us know that for good and for bad, where we come from is our parents. And so you heard both Sheila and Lynn today. I'm here in Livingston because all those years ago, my mother and father became the first of either of their families to leave the city of Newark to come here and make this home for us. My mom isn't with us today, but I feel here. And my dad is with us today and I'm really really privileged to have him. They raised my brother and I and brought us here to Livingston when we were four years old and two years old. And then our sister Dawn joined us a few years later. And this is where we grew up. These were the fields we played on. These are the playgrounds we played on. This is the school we built our friends with and learned with. And up until I left to share a room with Mary Pat, I shared a room with Todd the entire time. It was a smooth transition. And my sister Dawn and Todd are as big a part of today as anybody else and they're both here today and I thank them. Everyone thinks I'm the politician in the family. We did a coin flip when we got married. I called tails. Tails never fails so I'm the guy who ran. But the politician just as good as me in the family is the woman that I met all those years ago at the University of Delaware. From a family of ten people. People say why aren't you shy in a crowd, I say you should see the family I married into. My wife has been an indispensable part of everything that I've done with my life over the last thirty years and she is largely responsible for the four amazing people that you see standing with her. And ever since I've been governor, I've been happy to use the veto at home too. And so far so good I have not been overridden there either. So I'm glad they're here today and for Andrew and Sarah and Patrick and Bridget, I couldn't be prouder of four children than I am of them. I told you that my parents moved to Livingston and they moved to Livingston to make this part of their fulfillment of their dream. Of their version of the American dream. They both lost their fathers at a young age and were raised by extraordinarily strong women under really difficult circumstances. My dad, one of the best students of his high school class, admitted to Columbia University. Because his father passed away, he couldn't go. He didn't have the money. He went to work and got drafted into the army and came home. And went to work at the Breyer's Ice-cream plant in Newark, NJ. And then decided after he met my mom that it was time for him to make more with his life and he went to school at night at Rutgers for six years while working at those jobs during the day so he could get his degree in accounting and my mother, one of the proudest pictures she ever had was the one she called one of our first family pictures. It was my mom and dad on the day that my dad graduated Rutgers in June of 1962. It was the first person in either one of their families to get a college degree and it was the first family picture because she was 6 months pregnant with me. And the smiles on both of their faces that day were indicative of not what they had accomplished, but what they saw coming ahead of them. Their smiles were about the fact that they thought that nothing was out of reach for them now. They had each other, they were building a family, they worked together, and then with the help of both of those strong women the, they gave them five thousand dollars each, probably all the money they had in the world, to put a down payment on a house in this town to give their children a chance to take the dream they had started to build and to make it even bigger and even better. So I not only think about my mom and dad today, I think about my two grandmothers. Women who raised children largely on their own. Women who knew how to work and who knew that hard work would deliver something for their children. And I know that both of them are watching down today and that part of today is a fulfillment of their dream too. And I'm thinking about both of them. One of the things my mother used to say all the time was Christopher if you work hard enough, you can be anything. She said God's given you so many gifts, if you just work hard enough, you can be anything. And that story is proof. It's proof. Parents who came from nearly nothing, except for that hard work. Parents who brought little to their marriage except for their love for each other and that hard work. And that hard work not only produced a great life for me and my brother and my sister, but think about how amazing this country is that one generation removed from the guy who was working on the floor of the plant of the Breyer's Ice Cream plant, his son is the two term governor of the state where he was born and raised. See, that's not only what my parents have done for me but what that's what New Jersey has done for us. See this place, this place that represents the most ethnically diverse state in the country. The most densely populated state in the country. We're all different and we're on top of each other like you're on top of each other in this gym. And what has come from that, what has come from that is the absolute belief that not only can all of us achieve whatever dream we want to achieve, because of the place where we live and the opportunities that it gives us, but not only can we do it together, but we have to do it together. We have no choice but to work together, this country needs to work together again, not against each other. When I became governor six years ago, we had a state that was in economic calamity and an eleven billion dollar deficient on a twenty nine billion dollar budget. A state that had taxes and fees raised on it one hundred and fifteen times in the eight years before I became governor. A state that no longer believed that any one person could make a difference in the lives of the people of this state so we rolled up our sleeves and we went to work. And we balanced six budgets in a row. We've refused to raise taxes on the people of this state for six years. We made the hard decisions that had to be made to improve our education system, we reformed tenure for the first time in 110 years. We made the difficult decisions to reform pension and health benefits and we continue that fight today. We have stood together against each and every person, every cynic who said why are you wasting your time the state is not governable. The last six years we proved not only can you govern this state, you can lead it to a better day and that's what we've done together. And now we face a country. We face a country that's not angry. When I hear the media say that our country is angry, I know they're wrong. The last year I went to thirty seven different states across this country in one year and I met people in every corner of America. And they are not angry. Americans are not angry, Americans are filled with anxiety. They're filled with anxiety because they look to Washington D.C. and they see a government that not only doesn't work anymore, it doesn't even talk to each other anymore. It doesn't even try to pretend to work anymore. We have a president in the oval office who ignores the congress and a congress that ignores the president. We need a Washington D.C. that remembers you went there to work for us not the other way around. And both parties. Both parties have failed our country. Both parties have stood in the corner and held their breath and waited to get their own way. And both parties have lead us to believe that in America, a country that was built on compromise, that somehow now compromise is a dirty word. If Washington and Adams and Jefferson believed compromise was a dirty word, we'd still be under the crown of England. And this, this dysfunction, this lack of leadership, has lead to an economy that is weak and hasn't recovered the way it should. It's lead to an educational system that has us 27^th in the industrialized world in Math and 24^th in science. It's lead us, it's lead us to weak leadership around the world where our friends no longer trust us and our adversaries no longer fear us. This weakness and indecisiveness in the oval office has sent a wave of anxiety through our country, but I'm hear to tell you that anxiety can be swept away by strong leadership and decisiveness to lead America again. We just need to have the courage to choose. We just need to have the courage to stand up and say enough. We need to have the courage to course a new path for America. America knows that new path, it knows where it needs to go and it must start with this. We must tell each other the truth about the problems we have and about the difficulty of the solutions, but if we tell each other the truth everybody, if we recognize the truth and hard decisions today will lead to growth and opportunity tomorrow for every American in this country. What are those truths? What are those truths? We have to acknowledge that the government isn't working anymore for us. We have to acknowledge that and say it out loud and we have to acknowledge that it is the fault of our bickering leaders in Washington D.C. who no longer listen to us and no longer know that they're supposed to be serving us. We need to acknowledge that all of that anxiety and those failures are not the end, they're the beginning. The beginning of what we can do together. What we need to decide is that we can make a difference. That we can stand up and make a difference in this country. You see, that's why I love the job that I have. That's why I love my job as governor because kids ask me all the time. The forth graders that come to statehouse every week, they ask me.. the two questions that are always asked. One – what's your favorite color? Always. Second, they always ask me what's your best part of your job. And I always tell them it's that I wake up every morning knowing that I have an opportunity to do something great. I don't do something great every day, I'm human. But every morning I wake up with an opportunity to do something great. That's why this job is a great job and that's why President of the United States is an even greater job for an even greater number of people. I have spent the last thirteen years of my life as US Attorney and governor of this state fighting for fairness and justice and opportunity for the people of the state of New Jersey. That fight has not made me more weary, it has made me stronger and I am now ready to fight for the people of the United States of America. America is tired of handwringing and indecisiveness and weakness in the oval office. We need to have strength and decision-making and authority back in the oval office and that is why today I am proud to announce my candidacy for the Republican nomination for President of the United States of America. And now, as Livingston New Jersey turns it's gaze to the rest of America today, what do we see and what do we have to confront? We need a campaign of big ideas and hard truths and real opportunity for the America people. We need to fix a broken entitlement system that is bankrupting our country. We have candidates that say we cannot confront, because if we do we'll be lying and stealing from the American people. Let me fill everyone else in, the lying and stealing has already happened. The horse is already out of the barn. We've got to get it back in and you can only do it by force. We need to get our economy growing again at four percent or greater and the reason we do is because we have to make this once again the country that my mother and father told me it was. That as hard as you work, that's as hard and high as you'll rise. That's not the case anymore, we can't honestly look at our children and say that to them. Because we have an economy that is weak and doesn't present them with the same opportunities that Mary Pat and I were presented with in the mid 1980s when we graduated from college. When we graduated from college, we weren't worried about finding a job, we were worried about picking which job was the best for us. We didn't worry about whether we were going to be successful; we knew if we worked hard we were going to be successful. This country and it's leadership owes the same thing to my children and yours I'm ready to give it to you. We need a tax system. We need a tax system that's simplified and won't put CPA's like my dad out of business. We need to get the government off the back of our people and businesses with regulations and we need to encourage businesses to invest in America again, not overseas. Invest in our country and our people. And in a world that is as dangerous. As dangerous as frightening as I've seen it in my lifetime, there is only one indispensable force for good in the world. And it is a strong, unequivocal, America, that will lead the world and not be afraid to tell our friends we'll be with you no matter what. And to tell our adversaries that there are limits to your conduct and America will enforce the limits to that conduct. Well, here it comes. After seven years. After seven years, I heard the President of the United States say the other day that the world respects America more because of his leadership. This convinces me, this convinces me. This is the final confirmation that President Obama lives in his own world, not in our world. And the fact is this. After seven years of a weak and feckless foreign policy, run by Barack Obama, we'd better not turn it over to his second mate Hilary Clinton. In the end. In the end, everybody, leadership matters. It matters for our country, and American leadership matters for the world. But if we're going to lead, we have to stop worrying about being loved and start caring about being respected again at home and around the world. I am not running for president of the United States as a surrogate for being prom king of America. I am not looking to be the most popular guy who looks in your eyes every day and tries to figure out what you want to hear, say it and then turning around and doing something else. When I stand up on a stage like this in front of all of you there is one thing you will know for sure, I mean what I say and I say what I mean and that's what America needs right now. And unlike some people who offer themselves for the presidency in 2016, you're not going to have to wonder whether I can do it or not. In New Jersey as governor, I've stood up against economic calamity and unprecedented natural disaster. We have brought ourselves together, we have pushed back that economic calamity and we are recovering from that natural disaster and that's because we've lead and we've worked together to do it. As governor, I've proven that you can stand up and fight the most powerful special interest this state has to have and stand up and stop them, but at the same time reach across the aisle to our friends in the democratic party and say if you have a good idea I'm willing to work with you because that's what our country needs. And as governor, I've never wavered for telling you the truth as I see it and then acting to make sure that know that is the truth as I believe it in my heart. You know, as a candidate for president, I want to promise you just a few things. First, a campaign without spin, without pandering or focus group tested answers. You're going to get what I think whether you like it or not or whether it makes you cringe every once and a while or not. A campaign when I'm asked a question, I'm going to give the answer to the question that's asked, not the answer that my political consultants told me to give back stage. A campaign that every day will not worry about what is popular, but what is right. Because what is right is what will fix America, not what's popular. A campaign that believes. That believes in an America that is great as the hopes and dreams that we want every one of our children to have. Not a campaign that tears people down, but a campaign that rebuilds America to the place where you and I grew up and where we want our children to grow up in again and where we want free people around the world to grow up in in their countries as well, that's what America's always stood for and that's what this campaign will stand for. And all the signs say "Telling it like it is," but there's a reason for that. We are going to tell it like it is today so that we can create greater opportunities for  every American tomorrow. The truth will set us free, every body. All the years, all 52 years that I've spent in this state with our people have prepared me for this moment. We have no idea where and how this journey will end. But we know that it's only in this country, only in America, where someone like me could have the opportunity to seek the highest office the world has to offer. Only in America, could all of you believe that your voices and your efforts can make a difference and change a country as big and vast and powerful as this one. Only in America, only in America have we seen time after time after time, the truth of the words that one person can make a difference. You see, the reason that's true is because it's the only thing that's ever made a difference in the history of the world. One person, reaching out to another to change their circumstance and to improve the lot of their children and grandchildren. I don't see the presidency, for any other reason than because I believe in my heart that I am ready to work with you to restore America to it's rightful place in the world and to restore the American dream to each one of our children if they live in Livingston, Mendham, Newark or Camden. Paterson or Jersey City. No matter where they live across this country, we need to make sure that every one of children believes that their president who not only speaks to them, but who hears them, who hears them and understands that their voices is what makes any American president great. If you give me the privilege to be your president, I will wake up every day, not only with my heart strong and my mind sharp, but with my ears open and my arms open. To welcome the American people no matter what party, no matter what race or creed or color to make sure that you know that this is your country too. We are going to go and win this election and I love each and every one of you. Thank you. 

 
Thanks Renee and thanks Paul for that kind introduction. It’s great to be here. Today I’m going to talk about America’s place in the world and how we can create a new American century - and I couldn’t think of a better place for us to have that conversation. Right across this park is the house of John Paul Jones, a proud Irishman and father of the US Navy. And across the water, and over the decades, so many ships have sailed from the great Portsmouth Naval Yard in the service of freedom – and continue to do so. This is a place of history and one that has shaped history at so many pivotal moments. With that, I want to tell you about another story from history – a story about a proud son of New Hampshire with a New Jersey connection. John Winant was a Republican governor of this great state back in the 1930s. His New Jersey connection? He attended one of New Jersey’s great schools, Princeton University. He was the first man to serve more than one term as Governor here. And since he was tough enough to survive the politics of Concord, in 1941 the President asked him to take on another difficult job – US ambassador to Great Britain. As Ambassador Winant, he arrived in London at Britain’s darkest moment. London was being pounded round the clock by Hitler’s Luftwaffe. German U-boats were strangling the country’s food supply. Many people thought that a German invasion was weeks away. Faced with those circumstances, a lesser man might have asked for another assignment. Talk about a bad promotion, right? In fact, there were plenty of people who thought this was a fool’s errand. The outgoing ambassador, Joseph Kennedy – – thought Britain’s days were numbered and flew home as soon as he could. He declared that appeasement was the right course of action for America. A lot of opinion polls agreed with him. Well the new ambassador took a different approach. He flew to England. And the first thing he said when he got off that plane was “I’m very glad to be here. There’s no place I’d rather be at this time.” And he meant it. He rallied the morale of the British people, and promised them that America would stand by them. He went out on the streets of London and asked people what he could do to help. He counseled President Roosevelt not to give in to appeasement, but to prepare to confront the German menace. So why am I telling you this story? For two reasons. First, this is a story of New Hampshire’s impact on the course of history, at the moments when our country faced choices that would determine the course of our future. In this election season, as our country faces new choices and new challenges, you’re going to be asked to play that role again. But the other reason? For me, this is a story that embodies the qualities that make our country exceptional. Now, American exceptionalism is something that politicians love to talk about. It’s a punch line in a speech that makes you feel all warm and fuzzy. But American exceptionalism isn’t a punch line – it’s a set of principles. When the world faces its darkest moments, we use our strength and resolve to light a fire. When our allies stand up to fight the darkness, we find a way to stand with them. When a threat appears from over the horizon, our country gets ready – not when that threat arrives on our doorstep or when it’s popular. America has never been a member of the league of ordinary nations. We have never ignored the crises in the world around us. Because throughout history, leaders in both parties have based our foreign policy on these principles - strength, leadership and partnership with the people and nations who share our values. And it’s served the world and us pretty well. That’s what saved the world 70 years ago. That’s what defeated Soviet tyranny. That’s what kept the peace. Now, fast forward to today. For the first time since World War Two, Russian troops march across the lands of a sovereign European state. In the streets of Baghdad and Damascus, Aden and Tripoli, terror has become a permanent way of life – and the sinister black flag of ISIS looms larger every day. In the South China Sea, Chinese vessels raise islands and military bases from the sea, in disputed waters where they have no right to do so – seizing strategic footholds across the region. And in the holy land, Israeli citizens live their lives in the shadow of the Iranian menace – while our diplomats toast the promises of the ayatollahs. So how did this happen? How did it come to this? All these things are happening because American power is in retreat – and we’ve backed away from the principles that made us a source of strength and stability. No one understands any longer whom America stands with or against. No one understands exactly what we stand for and what we are willing to sacrifice to stand up for it. No one understands if we’re prepared to face the challenges of tomorrow – while we lurch from crisis to crisis today. Instead of consistent, principled policies that made our country respected by our allies and feared by our adversaries, we have an intellectual and strategic mess. Once, America sought to lead the world. Now, our President leads from behind. Well if we want to lead from behind, we’re going to be left behind. We give up our claim to be the leader of the free world. We give up the partnerships for peace that defined the American century. And we give up the chance of another American century. The world will be more dangerous and less prosperous. For six years, a lot of people in our country have been worried about the path we’re on. And I don’t want to feel like that anymore, and I bet you don’t either. So I think we ought to take a different approach. We need to change course as a country and embrace a foreign policy based on the timeless principles that helped America to lead the world. Let’s talk about what a policy agenda looks like for a truly exceptional nation, at a time of extraordinary global challenges – and how we get the strength, tools and partnerships to lead the world Stronger defense Under our Constitution, the first and most important job of our government is to protect every American and our way of life. That means keeping our military strong must be at the heart of any global agenda. A strong military doesn’t just help us to deal with the threats we face. It helps eliminate them before we even see them. Over the last 70 years, our world has entered an unprecedented era of peace and prosperity. Nations have risen from the ashes of war; new industries have reshaped the world. Europe became free and united, and democracies multiplied across Latin America, Asia and Africa. And all of this took place only because a strong America served as the anchor and organizer of global stability. We didn’t have to be a global policeman who solved every problem, but it was enough for our allies to know we had their back – to give them a zone for peace in which to choose a future for themselves. Now, our country reaped the rewards of this strategy for decades because we had responsible leaders in both parties who ensured that the military never become a partisan plaything. Partisanship is a fact of life in our political system, and a price worth paying to keep our democracy accountable, strong and vibrant. But our armed services were beyond this - because keeping our country safe should never be up for debate. But lately, things have changed. Over the last few years, Washington has grown more and more dysfunctional. And instead of reaching sensible compromises over spending, the President and Congress have made decisions that have compromised our military. Last year, the National Defense Panel, a bipartisan commission chartered by Congress, concluded that cuts in defense spending imposed by sequestration have been a “serious strategic misstep.” By forcing deep, across-the-board cuts in military spending since 2011, Congress and the President have tied the hands of our commanders and created a readiness crisis in our armed services. Now we have fighter pilots who can’t get enough hours in the skies to train, ships that can’t patrol the routes we need to, and only a handful of Army brigades ready to deploy at a moment’s notice. If we want to effectively deliver on our entire national defense strategy, then we need to fix this. We need ground forces that can respond to crises on multiple fronts, without compromising our capacity for deterrence. The Army and Marines should not be reduced below their pre-9/11 strength, and our active duty forces should be at 500,000 Army soldiers and 185,000 Marines. Our Navy should have more ships. In this century, to secure our global interests our Navy will be called upon to assume even greater challenges and responsibilities. But even as our maritime needs grow, we’re cutting back and right now are on a budgetary path to 260 ships or less. That’s just wrong. Our Navy bears the greatest burden of our forward-presence missions, and shouldn’t be equipped to do the bare minimum. We should have at least 350 ships – and our Navy should be an armada without equal. And we need a larger Air Force. Our Air Force now has the oldest and smallest combat force in its history, and we’re on track to reduce our inventory of bomber, fighter and surveillance forces by 50% over the next 4 years. Well, when it comes to maintaining our air supremacy, winging it won’t do. We should modernize the Air Force and build up to 2,500 combat coded aircraft as part of a total force of 6,000 aircraft capable of carrying out all the missions we know our pilots will face in the years ahead. Americans were the first to conquer the skies - let’s not concede them. So we need to give our men and women in uniform the resources they need to get the job done – and we owe it to them. That’s why Congress and the President should repeal the 2011 Budget Control Act as soon as humanly possible, get back to regular order in budgeting and restore funding levels to what Secretary Gates proposed in his fiscal 2012 budget – modest increases in defense spending through the end of the decade that will make a massive difference to our troops. It’s the right thing to do – and we should do it now. But that’s just the start. We also need to innovate to fight the battles of the future. For a long time our military has led the world not just through the skill and the courage of our troops, but the ingenuity of our scientists and engineers. Our forces are the envy of the world because they’re also the best equipped in the world. But the world is catching up – and our rivals are working hard to copy and steal our best-kept secrets. Today, Russia has stealth fighters, a new generation of battle tanks, and a growing military presence in the Arctic. China has its first aircraft carrier, with more on the way, double digit increases in military spending every year, and cutting-edge cyber warriors always, seemingly, one step ahead of our own. And in just the last few months, we’ve seen North Korean hackers targeting Hollywood and the Russians reading President Obama’s email. That’s just embarrassing. So we need to work harder to keep our edge. We need to invest in building the military of the future. We need to build a new generation of weapon systems to protect our interests on every front – on the ground, on the seas, in the air or new frontiers even further out. We need to invest in unmanned aviation, directed energy weapons and space. We should continue to be leaders in undersea warfare, and that’s why we should speed up the build rate of our Virginia-class attack submarines and support the replacement of the Ohio class. And when it comes to cyber warfare, we need to be ready not just to defend against threats to our vital national systems, we need the offensive capabilities to deter our enemies – or strike back if they don’t take the hint. To keep our country safe in this century, we need to maintain the digital balance of power. And if we want our armed forces to get the right tools at the right time, in a way that doesn’t waste taxpayer money, we need to fundamentally reform our entire DoD procurement process. Between 2001 and 2011, the DoD spent around $44 billion dollars on weapon programs that were eventually cancelled. Weapons that have overrun their budgets by hundreds of billions of dollars and failed to live up to expectations. And across the board, military officials spend millions of dollars every year dealing with red tape and byzantine reporting requirements just to get the weapons we need. Clearly, something isn’t right here in our procurement process. Business-as-usual bureaucrats in Washington aren’t taking care of business. So we need to adopt real world, private sector practices across our procurement system, and remove wasteful, overlapping functions. Bureaucracy shouldn’t burden our troops, and we should attack it with the same energy as any other threat to our defense. Stronger intelligence So a strong defense needs to be the first cornerstone of our foreign policy. The second is strengthening our intelligence efforts. This is something very close to my heart. Because I’ve seen up close just how important our intelligence community is to defending our way of life. On the morning of September 11, my wife Mary Pat was working just two blocks from the World Trade Center. She got evacuated from Manhattan by ferry, and I was so unbelievably grateful and relieved that she was all right. But like many of you, there were other people in our lives – friends, colleagues, loved ones – who didn’t make it. A friend from our church. The brother of one of Andrew’s teachers. Parents of their classmates. And for New Jersey as a whole, we lost so many people on that terrible day - the second most deaths of any state other than the State of New York. Those weeks after the attacks were such a scary and unpredictable time for everyone. But it was also in that time that President Bush nominated me to be US Attorney for the District of New Jersey. I was informed by the White House on September 10, 2001 that I would be nominated for US Attorney for the District of New Jersey, and I was confirmed to that post on December 10, three months later. And by then it was clear what I was going to be working on for the next few years. In early 2002, John Ashcroft called all the US Attorneys into the Justice Department. And he gave us a message from the President. What happened on 9/11 must never happen again – and it was up to all of us to prevent it. We had a responsibility to go after the terrorists with every legal instrument at our disposal. Well I took that to heart. Because I remembered what it felt like to be waiting for a phone call from Mary Pat, hoping and praying that she was safe. I know what it feels like to lose people when they should be safe – at work, on our streets. This is not theoretical to me. I lived it in my home. Everything changed that morning in September. So for the next seven years of my life, my office focused on fighting terrorism every day. We started by bringing the first post-9/11 terrorism case in the country. This was a case against a man called Hemant Lekhani, an Indian-born British citizen who tried to buy and sell shoulder-fired missiles on the black market, that could take down a plane. He thought he was dealing with a terror organization, but he was actually dealing with a joint operation between the FBI and the Russians. We investigated that case using tools including the Patriot Act – and we ended up getting him convicted and sent to jail for the rest of his life. Another case was the Fort Dix Six. These were six radical Islamists who were conspiring to attack soldiers at Fort Dix in New Jersey. They tried to buy weapons and explosives from an underground weapons dealer who was actually an FBI informant – the result of a 16-month operation with the FBI and Justice Department to infiltrate the group. It was incredible coordination, and we got the entire group behind bars. So I’ve used all the tools we had to go after terror. I’ve used the Patriot Act myself and personally reviewed the applications. I’ve prosecuted terrorists, and sent terrorists to jail. And I’ve seen what happens when our intelligence community, legal system and law enforcement work together. We can use information to save lives. That’s why intelligence matters. At the simplest level, intelligence helps us prevent the next attack. But at its best, intelligence is a force multiplier for all our national capabilities. If we want to manage events – and not have events manage us – then we need superior knowledge of the world around us. Strength and knowledge go hand in hand – and should always be at the core of our strategy. Now, we’ve seen some good successes over the last few years. The way Bin Laden was caught shows exactly how our intelligence efforts should work. That took ten years of investment in building our human intelligence capabilities. It took an immense effort to track individual cell phones across Pakistan and Afghanistan. And it was the payoff for years of training and equipping our SEAL teams to get the job done. President Obama and President Bush deserve credit for laying the foundations for that operation, and most of all, the brave troops and operatives on the ground who made this happen. But we need more efforts like that. We need to be constantly building those foundations for the threats over the horizon, and the next set of challenges we need to solve. Today, we’re not seeing that progress. Instead, Washington is debating the wrong question entirely - which intelligence capabilities should we get rid of? Too often, the loudest voices in the debate about how to keep our country safe are driven by some purist, theoretical vision of how we should manage our intelligence efforts. When Edward Snowden revealed our intelligence secrets to the world in 2013, civil liberties extremists seized that moment to advance their own narrow agenda. They want you to think that there’s a government spook listening in every time you pick up the phone or Skype with your grandkids. They want you to think of our intelligence community as the bad guys, straight out of the Bourne Identity or a Hollywood thriller. And they want you to think that if we weakened our capabilities, the rest of the world would love us more. Let me be clear - all these fears are exaggerated and ridiculous. When it comes to fighting terrorism, our government is not the enemy. And we shouldn’t listen to people like Edward Snowden, a criminal who hurt our country and now enjoys the hospitality of President Putin – while sending us messages about the dangers of authoritarian government. And, frankly, we don’t need advice from Hollywood, the guys who made our intelligence agencies the villains in practically every movie from the last twenty-five years. But instead of taking on the ideologues, the Obama administration and the Democrats have taken the path of least resistance. They’ve apologized for our intelligence collection, promised that we will collect it only in ways that protect the privacy of foreign citizens, and cut back on vital funding for our intelligence services. They’ve politicized intelligence oversight and demoralized our intelligence community. Last year, Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee released a one-sided and inaccurate attack on our intelligence services. Democrats behind that report should be ashamed for putting partisanship above genuine oversight in the way they released this. And it’s just disgraceful the way there are folks on the Hill who want American intelligence weaker and less informed just to drive their own personal political agendas. So instead of support, our intelligence services get condemnations. Instead of resources, they get regulations. Instead of building a community that’s trusted and equipped to go after the hard targets, we have a risk-averse intelligence service. The watchword from this administration isn’t, “Collect all the information you can about a dangerous world,” but “collect only what you have to have.” The next time there’s a phone call to a terrorist safe house in Yemen from San Diego or New Jersey, would our agents dare to listen in? Well, we’ve never had a risk-averse military. And I don’t think we want a risk-averse intelligence service. So we need to fix this. We need to treat intelligence as a practical issue, not a theoretical one. We need to be practical about preventing real civil liberties abuses wherever they occur. That’s what a vigilant, responsible Congress, not a partisan one, would accomplish with vigorous oversight. That’s what a truly apolitical Justice Department would do by pursuing real legal violations by any member of our intelligence community who steps over the line. Protecting our homeland must be an uncompromising priority. The vast majority of Americans aren’t worried about the government listening in on them, because it hasn’t happened. But they are worried about what happens if we don’t catch the bad people who want to harm our country. Here’s how we catch them. We need to toughen our anti-terror and surveillance laws to give our intelligence services the legal mechanisms to do their job. Over the last couple of years, most of our allies including the UK, France, Canada and Australia, have announced plans to toughen their laws to better detect and prevent terrorism and extremism. Now we’re the only major country talking about going in the opposite direction. We should begin by passing a clean extension of the Patriot Act. At the end of May, vital pieces of that legislation are going to expire, including Section 215 – essential for our intelligence agencies to access the data they need to stop suspected terrorists. I used this tool extensively, aggressively and legally as US Attorney and I can tell you this: it works. This is a big debate in Congress right now, and different courts have expressed their views on the program too. But right now, that debate is dominated by the intellectual purists worried about theoretical abuses that haven’t occurred - instead of the real threats that we’ve already seen from Garland, Texas, to Ft. Dix, New Jersey. If you’re an ordinary, law-abiding American, this legislation has absolutely no effect on you – except it could prevent the next attack from taking place in our country, killing our fellow citizens. Absolutely no one has a single real example of our intelligence services misusing this program for political or other nefarious purposes. And we have incredibly stringent oversight of these provisions. I wish I could say the same about the Internal Revenue Service in this administration. The critics have chosen the wrong target. But if they had a leg to stand on, they would ask for greater oversight of Section 215. But they don’t want to because that would mean more responsibility and accountability for them. Simply put, they’re on the wrong side of this debate. So let’s move beyond this. Let’s give our people the tools they need to get the job done. Part of that also means properly funding our intelligence services and allowing them to keep innovating and improving their capabilities. We need to invest in new technologies and infrastructure to support our signals intelligence, so that we can actually interpret all the data we’re gathering. Today’s problem isn’t having too little information; it’s having too much. So we need to invest in turning noise into understanding. One of the ways we can do that is by building a stronger and more productive relationship with Silicon Valley. Our entrepreneurs and innovators are some of our strongest assets as a country, and the work they’re doing to connect the world helps to improve all our lives. So we should be clear that we have no interest in reading the Facebook messages and tweets of ordinary Americans. We want a strong and secure internet. But we need the tools to find the people who would hurt our country so that people can carry on enjoying the benefits of Facebook and Twitter and Google. Our government should treat our tech community as our partners, not our enemies. And when foreign governments try to use the Snowden leaks to justify protectionism and attacks on our companies, we need to fight for them – and with something more than apologies. At the same time, we need to strengthen our human intelligence capabilities in the parts of the world where they’re weakest. Our country has reacted too slowly to the return of Moscow’s aggression and the rise of ISIS partly because of our lack of investment in human intelligence. America should never be caught napping because we chose not to invest in dealing with the hard targets – Russia, Iran, North Korea. And closer to home, we can do more to strengthen our cooperation and intelligence sharing with our neighbors, as well as our allies in Europe. We face common challenges and enemies, so we ought to have common solutions. With Canada and Mexico we should be sharing more information about overseas travelers to both countries, and greater cooperation with Mexico to police their side of the border. And with Europe, in particular the countries in the visa waiver program, we should be doing more to encourage the sharing of digital data and information about extremist threats. Ensuring the collective security of our allies should be something they welcome, and it’s the price for all our partnerships. Stronger alliances With that in mind, let’s talk about the final pillar of our stronger foreign policy – building stronger alliances. As Governor, I’ve had the chance to meet with a lot of foreign leaders and partners from overseas. Over the last couple of years I’ve met with the leaders of our closest allies, from Canada and Mexico, to Israel and Great Britain. Everywhere I go, I hear the same thing from our allies – we want America to be a strong global leader. We want you to step up and lead. Because that’s who we are. It’s not just our strength and intelligence that defines us as a country; it’s our willingness to stand with those who share our values and interests. We became the leader of the free world because we also chose to become the arsenal of democracy. And when we make a commitment to stand with our allies, our word is our bond. Or at least it used to be. Throughout history, our leaders and diplomats have lived their lives to extend that bond. Our soldiers have died to defend it. But right now, we have a government that doesn’t seem to care about all the blood and sweat and treasure that it took to build those alliances. Because we’ve broken our word. In 2013, President Obama talked about defending a red line for our nation if the Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons against his own people. Well, he used chemical weapons on his people. President Obama’s response? Never mind. His unwillingness to stand behind his own words has made America weaker and less reliable in the world. He damaged the credibility of the Presidency. And when the world saw that our word was not our bond, are we surprised at what happened next? Are we surprised that Vladimir Putin chose to annex Crimea and invade eastern Ukraine? Are we surprised that Iranian-backed militias are rampaging across Yemen? Are we surprised that Bashar al-Assad continues to butcher thousands of men, women, using barrel bombs and conventional munitions dropped out of Russian helicopters? Or that with Iranian support, the moderate Syrian opposition has been sidelined by extremists and ISIS? So whoever is going to be our next Commander-in-Chief is going to make restoring America’s word a priority. We need to make it clear to our friends and allies that we stand with them in the cause of freedom, and against all the gathering threats. We will stand together, because we cannot stand alone. And we must return America to the leadership role the world needs and expects. In Europe, our first task is to defend the Western alliance against Russian aggression. We have spent 70 years of blood and treasure, first to defeat Nazism and then to defeat Soviet totalitarianism to establish and maintain a free and united Europe. Now President Obama and Secretary Clinton are giving this sacred investment away for nothing with their inane reset button. In March, the Polish government started offering military training to any civilians between the ages of 18 and 50 who wanted it. On the very first day they opened up that program, 1,000 people signed up. And then they kept coming. When Polish civilians are drilling to defend the streets of Warsaw once again, you know our Europe policy is a scary failure to our allies. And we need to have our allies’ backs. And we need to do it now. We need to stand up to Russian aggression together, and make clear that our commitment to our NATO allies in Eastern Europe is absolute. And if Putin’s Russia wants to rejoin the community of civilized nations, then they’re going to have to behave like one. We need to bolster our allies by helping them get access to the weapons systems and training they need to defend themselves. We should strengthen NATO’s military presence in the Baltic states, and make clear to all our Eastern European allies that we will not allow the freedoms they’ve won since the Cold War to be reversed. We should give Ukraine the weapons it needs to defend itself. We should also put the pressure on all our NATO allies to invest more in their own defense. After the Cold War, too many of our European allies rushed to cut their military spending and enjoy the dividend of peace. Well now they need to invest, and fulfill their NATO commitments to spend at least 2% of GDP on defense annually. It’s not because we’re not going to have their backs – Europe just needs to watch their front as well, and close the big and increasing capabilities gap that we saw between our forces and theirs at moments like Kosovo in 1999 and Libya in 2011. And even as Europe increases spending, we should work with them to avoid duplication in capabilities across the alliance. They don’t all need to rush out and buy tanks, but they might benefit from investing more in cyber warfare, missile defense, precision weapons and artillery – the things we need more of. And as for Russia – until Putin chooses the path of peace, we should keep applying pressure. Just a couple of months ago, the head of Russia’s FSB – the old KGB – was invited to the White House for a summit on “countering extremism.” We didn’t just invite the fox into the hen house, we let in the bear. That just seems crazy to me. Instead, we should immediately put travel bans and asset freezes on every member of the Russian parliament and Putin’s entire circle – including Putin himself. We know who holds the leash on the dogs of war. So let’s not mess around on this. And if that still isn’t enough, we should look at tougher sanctions on Russia’s energy and financial sectors – and hit them where it really hurts. How we deal with Russia is a test for how we stand with all our allies everywhere. We cannot back down, and we need a leader who won’t back down. But there are other places we’re going to be tested too, and other allies we need to defend. At the top of the list is Israel. I’m going to be short and sweet here. Our commitment to Israel must be absolute. Israel is a beacon of freedom in a sea of autocracy, and our friendship should be unshakable. Over the last few years, the Obama administration has taken our Israeli partners for granted and it’s just shameful the way the President has treated them. When the President is barely on speaking terms with Prime Minister Netanyahu, and waited two days to call and congratulate him after his election, that’s just immature. If we can’t be respectful to our best friends in the world, then we’re not going to get very far with anyone else – and it’s no surprise this administration has such an abysmal record on diplomacy. Finally, Israel and its people must be supported by the United States and the American President. Its existence and security is non-negotiable. The Iranians and others who think otherwise must be reminded of that simple fact. Also damaging to our partnership with Israel, is just the staggering strategic incompetence and disinterest in countering the rising threats across the Middle East and North Africa – threats that if left unchecked, will compromise Israel’s security and future. If we truly care about defending Israel, then we need to consider what the region will look like tomorrow – and then take action today. President Obama seems unwilling to stand up to anyone in the Middle East—except for Prime Minister Netanyahu. It is embarrassing and dangerous. We have a lot of work to do. With Iran, the President’s eagerness for a deal on their nuclear program has him ready to accept a bad deal. The framework we’ve negotiated here seems pretty flimsy, and I have grave concerns over how we’re going to make the Iranians live up to their end of the bargain and how we can ensure proper, verifiable compliance. So until we get that, we should have the strength to keep our guard up and keep our sanctions up. The deal as structured will lead to a nuclear Iran and, then, a nuclearized Middle East. That not only threatens Israel. It threatens the United States and turns 70 years of nuclear policy on its head. Iran has also been pretty busy across the region, and almost everywhere Iran opposes US goals. In Yemen, they’ve launched a proxy war that has devastated our ally and represents a clear and present danger to world. And while Iran has supported Iraq in fighting back against ISIS, their motives are hardly benign, and we know they have a long-term interest in building a power base in Iraq. Iran might not have the bomb right now - but their influence is absolutely radioactive to the world. So we need to contain it with our moderate Sunni Arab allies, while at the same time rolling back the shadow of ISIS. We need to do more to organize our allies into a strong coalition on the ground in Yemen, and to train and equip the moderate opposition to Assad in Syria and the tribal elements in Iraq that are a threat to peace. We should develop new tools to blunt Iran’s regional influence, including ways to fight the flow of cash to their puppets: Hezbollah, the Houthis, Syria and Iraqi militants. We should link our sanctions regime to the threat Iran poses to the region, and treat all these threats as connected, which the Obama Administration doesn’t - and come up with a real coherent strategy with our Sunni partners. The price of inaction is steadily rising. Just last week we saw the embarrassment of almost all the Gulf leaders, including the Saudi King, pulling out of President Obama’s summit at Camp David. Our allies want policies, not photo ops, and we’re not listening to them. And as we fail to confront Iran’s shadowy nuclear program and undisguised quest for regional power, we raise the likelihood of states taking unilateral actions or seeking extreme solutions. If we’re not going to stop Iran getting a nuclear capability, then why would the Saudis or Egyptians or Emiratis choose not to follow? If we don’t have a plan to stop Bashar al-Assad in Syria, or Iraq in Yemen, what’s to stop governments lending support to proxy forces like Al Qaeda and ISIS? In August the President announced a campaign to degrade and destroy ISIS. But right now they seem to be getting stronger every day, and we’ve just witnessed ISIS taking full control of Ramadi, the capital of Iraq’s largest province. So right now our piecemeal strategy to deal with ISIS doesn’t inspire confidence. When allies lose confidence in us, they take matters into their own hands. I think it’s better for America to extend a helping hand – and help manage events. And that’s why we also need to strengthen our alliances across the Asia-Pacific region. This century, more than any other, will be defined by the Pacific. So I think it’s important we work to build on our relationships with our core allies in the region, Australia, Japan, the Philippines and Korea, as well as newer partners, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma and Vietnam. Now, the President has talked about leading a pivot to Asia in our foreign and security policy. We’ve taken some of the right steps, like working to strengthen our economic ties with our Asian partners through the Trans-Pacific Partnership. But generally, we haven’t matched strategy with capabilities, particularly in terms of our defensive deployments. 2,500 marines in Australia, a couple of Littoral Combat Ships in Singapore, and exercises in Philippines are a start. But compare that to China’s double digit growth in military spending every year, with thousands of missiles pointed across the Taiwan Straits, next generation fighter jets and soon, likely a full blue water capable fleet with aircraft carriers. And we still face an unpredictable and dangerous regime in North Korea, and extremist threats across the region. If we don’t upgrade our presence in the region, then we won’t be able to keep our commitments to our allies. The President’s pivot to Asia might just be a pendulum to Asia. So I think we should match words with deeds, and alliances with strength. We need to reposition more of our fleet and our forces across the region, and give our allies the capabilities they need to respond to the threats of the future. We don’t want to fuel a regional arms race, but there’s no reason we can’t help our allies upgrade their capabilities with stronger coastal defenses, submarines, maritime reconnaissance equipment and other defensive equipment. Nothing about these policies is about treating China like a foe. China is a great nation, and we want them to be a partner. Our countries have so much to learn and to offer one another, and if we can work together, we can create a century of greater prosperity and security. But we must never shy away from demanding that China live up to the rules of the global community, and respect the human rights of its own people and the sovereignty of our allies – and we should make clear that the United States will always stand by its allies, no matter what. Let me be clear. Strengthening America’s defenses and our intelligence community, and sending clear and resolute signals to allies and adversaries alike will not lead to war. It will build the foundations of peace. It will lead to fair negotiations, not one-sided ones. It will lead us towards stability and away from indecision and chaos. It will strengthen existing alliances and build new ones. It will reestablish American credibility in the world—with everyone. America’s word will once again be our bond – as it always should have been. A great generation So that’s how I see an American foreign policy designed for the times we live in – and for an exceptional country. We need a stronger defense, stronger intelligence and stronger alliances. When we add strength to knowledge, and work with partners who share our interests and values, we can create a world that is safer, stronger and more prosperous. But there’s one more thing we need to do. We need to banish cynicism. Today there are plenty of voices that say that America’s time as a global leader has passed. We can’t change the world. We shouldn’t change the world. The challenges we face are too great – and our power too small. That might be true of an ordinary nation. But that’s not us. President Reagan once said that “above all, we must realize that no arsenal or no weapon in the arsenals of the world is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women. It is a weapon our adversaries in today’s world do not have. It is a weapon that we as Americans do have.” He was right. And that will and courage will lead us forward. Today, we live in cynical times with cynical politics. If we’re going to keep making progress as a country, we’re going to have to fix that and get our domestic house in order. That’s a longer discussion – and one that I’m looking forward to having with all of you in the weeks and months ahead. But none of us should doubt our ability to lead in this new century. This can be the second American century. It must be. We shouldn’t fear that challenge. Our forefathers’ generation was called “the greatest generation” because they put their lives on the line to protect our way of life – and because they overcame the greatest challenges. They didn’t achieve greatness because the challenges were too few. It was because they faced many, and they dared to confront them. It’s only when we dare to face the big challenges that we can achieve greatness. Courage is not the absence of fear – it is the presence of fear, but with the will to go on fighting. Well we have a chance today to face big challenges and to overcome them. We have a chance to follow in the footsteps of giants like our grandparents’ generation, and leaders like New Hampshire’s John Winant. He went to London in the service of his country. Now, we’ve been blessed with the strength and resources to go out and defend our way of life once again. And if we dare to do that, then we have a chance to be a great generation too. It’s time for us to get to work, and to find our greatness again. Let’s go do the big things that lead America to another century of exceptionalism, and not a century of settling for second place. The world is waiting, and together we can lead it forward. Thank you.
