bigprobill_w10
Bigotry driven by xenophobia and ignorance.
Racist opposition to it
Immigrants living in the shadows.
allows business people to exploit their workers
"Xenophobia, racism of ignorant citizens"
The vast majority of illegal immigrants are decent hard working people who want a chance to make a better life for their children and families. They are not causing problems.
None
Right wing hysteria
Misunderstanding and prejudice.
Difficulty keeping track and providing help
Lack of jobs
Nothing
if terrorists come in
talking heads on tv & radio beat the issue to death.
not a problem
hate against them
not sure
Automotive accidents
People being unwilling to get help for fear of being deported
No oroblem
children arrive without their parents
Language difficulty keeps illegal immigrates from integrating into the society to get jobs that may create a population dependent on crime.
small amount turn to crime
bigotry from those that don't like the immigrants
Jobs for legals are lessened because the undocumented will work more cheaply and thus undercutting legal job seekers.
Ensuring fair treatment of migrant workers by businesses
obtaining an income without paying any taxes
conservatives complaining about them
Jobs
I don't see any problems.
Gives politicians something to focus on besides the things that really matter
Over crowding in schools
using up all of our federal funds
Causes the Republican Party to go bat shit crazy!
"I am welcoming of immigration, the issue with illegal immigration is those being paid ""under the table"" by employers paying below minimum wages. Providing immigrant status would (1) offer wage protection to the worker, and (2) the worker would pay taxes."
populaton
"Illegal immigrants are exploited for labor, in the long run it keeps the pay for certain jobs are not a livable wage. The overall economy suffers as a consequence."
Individuals dying during the journey
The political grandstanding
not sure
Cost of free services.
I guess it would be the potential jobs they're taking away from citizens.
Corporations complain about them while simultaneously taking advantage of them
Health care and housing
the u.s.
ignorant people with no real knowlege of the situation
drain on healthcare due to hospital visits
Lack of uncollected taxes
"strain on services: hospital, schools, housing without being able to pay themselves"
i dont know
Trump
Na
undocumented criminals
maybe a strain on not paying taxes
no taxes being paid
taxes
people perceiving they are taking over jobs when it is only jobs U citizens do not want to do
Taking jobs off of some college kids trying to pay for thier education.
not sure
none
stealing jobs
jobs
Unnecessary stress stomach ulcers
them getting arrested.
Jobs
Racism
no jobs for americans to much freedom no taxes for them
The unaccepting nature of the closed minded Republican party
racists thinking that it's okay to harm them.
overpopulation
I don't believe there is a problem. I think there is a bunch of fear mongering by Conservatives.
hatred by the people who hate them
How much money we spend to hunt them down and deport them
RACIAL HATRED
Republicans
Not sure
I. Don't see a huge problem with it.
Conservatives who bitch about immigration.
Don't know
loss of jobs
crime
assistance
The media and demagogues pretending that they're dangerous or cause harm with questions like this that presume some negative quality.
jobs
Population
The Republican Party rhetoric
nothing
Cost of housing
not sure
Nothing; they really don't cause any problems
People who are offended by their presence and fight to remove them from our country.
poverty
UNEMPLOYMENT
The cost of border patrol and ensuing legal costs
no idea
NA
not being able to speak English
Lazy Mexicans
using our resources without paying taxes
Low wages
maybe stressing the emergency room services?
Children of these immigrant not receiving a proper education and health care.
"abuse of human beings because they lack legal status to fight back, eg; employers, law enforcement"
poverty
"the resentment that people feel, xenophobia"
Employment
na
Putting a strain on critical services such as medical
None
Unfair to people who immigrated here legally
Job loss to legal citizens.
none
"The fact that this issue is mischaracterized by pundits and politicians (i.e. Republicans) and used as propaganda to advance their fear-driven political agenda, diverting attention from more reldvent issues and problems confronting us in this country."
"that the us government does nothing about the people who are there. they work all their lives, pay taxes through sales tax and governmental fees and get no protections later on in life. the only problem is that we are not doing anything about the people here and instead have an entire economic system built upon a slave wages labor market. we should be decent human beings and just grant them citizenship so they can live a worry free life, contribute to society and get the benefits of the society in which they have already integrated their lives."
Money not staying in the US
Unsure
The illegal immigrant being abused because of their status
Racism on the part of those born here.
They have no money or health care. Tax payers are out money on them.
The time it takes to become a citizen of the United States.
Americans treating them as illegals.
Bigotry and hate
"Health car, education and social programs."
Children exploited
None
Not having a job
disproportionate tax payments compared to cost of services utilized
Wage exploitation
Bigotry against ALL immigrants.
"Communication - they need to have to learn, understand, and speak English."
There isn't one
none
No problem . Illegal immigration is good . That's why you . The reader . Your mother and father both came from illegal immigration. Now look at you . Good job . For money .you know how to read and write . Be proud of your self . Don't doute. Recognize. He well
Talking points for the repubs
Not sure
Spending stupid amounts of money for preventing it
advance
Over population
It exacerbates the overpopulation caused by our excessive longevity and unnaturally low mortality rate.
Nothing
"Inability to get jobs and be legal, contributing citizens because of laws"
Lowering wages for blue collar workers.
"Not paying tax,"
none
poverty
none
I don't think there is a problem.
I don't think it is a big problem
Public assistance benefits given to their children that are born here
it makes the repuiblicans go nuts .
taxes used for housing and food for the people.
?
The illegal persons are doing jobs AMERICANS refuse to do and that keeps unemployment up and a cash flow of USD out of the country. Thus lazy americans collecting from the govt.
they need time to become legal residents of the US... they dont make it easy for them to do so
none
War
Not paying taxes
That it has become such a contentious political issue.
Don't know
none
Donald Trump
"The Americas' (North, South and Central, along with Canada) populations should be the people making up the immigration numbers. They were all here first, with their established trading routes. They didn't cross the border but the border crossed them and separated the peoples. The government has no heart, labels them as illegal and ships them off while the lighter skinned Europeans and Asians get to stay."
"Keeps wages down, illegal immigrants are exploited"
competition in workforce with legal immigrants and citizens
Drug smuggling. But I do not believe it is a major issue.
no idea
Republican politicians
"They earn money in the US, but take it back to Mexico to spend it"
Lies and ignorance of those who want immigrants deported.
I don't know
"Illegal immigrants are easy to exploit from a labor standpoint, reducing working conditions and wages for everyone. They have no recourse for unfair or illegal employers, and this encourages employers to exploit the workers."
Working for little wages
GOP rhetoric
They should not so tight in the applicant.
safety
Economy in the United States is better.
increase in population
employment
Finding housing
Not sure
GETTING JOBS THAT TRUE AMERICAN SHOULD BE GETTING
none
conservative hysteria
nothing
"allow businesses to pay less than minimum wage, hurts economy and americans find jobs"
Nothing
The economy
Drain on social services money
Not sure.
health care costs
Not paying taxes
Better themselfd
crime
"medical expenses, drain on the healthcare system"
No major problems
"It gives corporations incentive to lower working standards, safety, and wages since undocumented workers won't rock the boat. It also raises the cost of Healthcare as corporate Healthcare charges more to keep their profits high."
Drugs
unemployment
identity theft
"Over use of services (education, medical, etc.) not supported by taxes paid by the people involved (illegal immigrants)"
They pay no taxes.
Labor exploitation
bringing down wages
don't know
Drugs
"Illegal immigrants are not treated fairly by employers, not receiving benefits or retirement benefits and not receiving living wages."
Not surw
Inability to get accurate census data.
Not enough resources.
they are taking our jobs which is causing higher umemployment claims in the u s
Stagnation of wages
Nothing really.
The racist xenophobic extremists who think immigrants are ruining our country!
no jobs for people who have families
The rise of Donald Trump.
Immigrants not paying taxes and still benefitting from the taxpayers money
do not paid taxes
none? I don't think any of our problems are caused by illegal immigrants
Aid given to needy families and cost to educate
Lower paying jobs
illegal work
The changes in the law making it harder for immigrants to enter legally and become Americans. They are a huge benefit.
Republican rhetoric
Farming and Big Business
That it's a talking point for the right.
Republicans reactions
adapting to american life.
Language instruction and finding them enough/quality resources
They are exploited both by human traffickers and busineses here
I believe if someone is not willing to do things legally they are criminals. They could also have criminal tendencies and commit crimes in the US.
"fear of deportation, lack of ability to access services to improve their lives"
not sure
The way that undocumented people are exploited
Y
Increased costs to local governments
Republicans who do not know how to govern.
Low wages paid to illegal immigrants driving down employment standards and wages for citizens.
Strain on services
Nothing
Inability to assimilate
dividing the population over an issue that is blown out of proportion
The unethical people that employ them.
None
Don't know
none
lower wages
don't check
People not caring
lack of opportunity for the immigrants due to legal status
Crazy folks that are allowed guns and crime. Illegal immigration is not the problem.
Low wages
pressures on human services and school systems
White People.
Less income in taxes
it is a political football tossed about by our elected leaders as if it were a game
the burden on the healthcare system
The U.S. & other imperialist nations destroying and allowing corporations to destroy local economies.
forcing people to live in the shadows
"Ignorance, fear, hatred, bigotry, and racism."
Poor treatment of legal immigrants.
"The fact that the us government is way to big, bulky and unwieldy to be effective in doing anything."
"Their families are disrespectful when they hold up their non US flag, take jobs, health plus other benefits from legal Americans, they trash our streets and worse of all they commit murder, rape, rob, etc.They do not have respect to speak English. Its a slap in the face to us Legal Americans should not refer to them as ""Illegal Aliens"" notice such loyalty to the illegals who keep entering with out permission so lets even help them even more make them so comfortable with Driver licenses even those obnoxious billboards in Spanish only, translation forms giving them a red carpet treatment has & will only help them to invade not help nor encourage them to learn English, they really will not learn if they do not need too. Has anyone notice down town Los Angeles this disgusting dirty, graffiti is spreading to our other surrounding cities. Why would they even need to actually immigrate, no screening we have Gangs invading communities places no longer speak English. THE UNITED STATES is starting to look more and more like Mexico or any third world country. Helping with translations or worse signs, advertising, billboards anything in only Spanish is not only disrespectful to those who only speak English but an insult to people of other languages who represent America. These signs assist and will continue helping illegals who do not have family certainly helps them get around easier. Speaking English in public would help stray those who love to use us but not respect our land. Otherwise, only will get worse as it is on its way"
not paying taxes
None
Crime....sex trade......murder.....
"Well, since immigration is actually at net zero right now.... jobs, standard of living"
Not sure
The criminals that come in.
economy
The political rhetoric caused by it that causes leaders and the public to ignore more serious issues
more children in precarious situations because of the government railing on their parents
the republicans can't get their votes
"In effect, we have two signs at the border: one says ""help wanted,"" the other says ""keep out."""
Racist people being giant dickbags
the government
Fear that politicians put into our mind by over playing the situation. I am not convinced it is as bad as the politicians make it out to be. It is a power ploy to get money for their projects and more votes for them.
I HAVE NOT PERSONALLY HAD ANY PROBLEMS WITH THIS
They feel the need to use a SSN to get a job so they buy one
Not allowing them a fast-track path to citizenship
Over reaction by immigration opponents
"Many support out country and contribute to the welfare of their former countries along with helping their families at home. The biggest problem ""seems"" to be the Republican Party and all of its constituents."
The hyped up media attention
Separation of families
uncertainty
It gets bigots upset.
poor countries they live in and ancharcy
"Uninsured, unlicensed driven cars."
Public planning and social services
Poor treatment of immigrants who risk their lives to come here. Also separation of immigrant children from families.
no idea
people thinking they can get away with everything
none
not sure
Media blowing the situation out of proportion
"draining of resources that belong to legal citizens, bringing in older family who draw ss and other resources."
the media bad politics
I wouldn't say all immigration are bad. But I do worry about terrorism attacks!
Isis
Disease
That they are not given the same rights as people who are rich enough to legally immigrate.
poverty
N/a
Poverty and harassment of the immigrants
Donald Trump
The republicans lying about them.
Republican reaction
Right wing hysteria.
Lack of Education
School system
They don't cause any problems
health care
That people here use it as an excuse to treat people from other countries badly.
poverty
Undocumented workers/hidden economy
n/a
Fascist jackasses excusing their own bad behavior by using undocumented immigrants as scapegoats
They don't get all the benefits of being a citizen.
taxes
No insurance or taxes
Feeds racist attitudes of xenophobia
"Employers can abuse them with low wages and dangerous working conditions, knowing they won't be able to take action against them. This makes it difficult for other individuals to compete with the immigrants."
Unpaid taxes
Disease vector transmission
Free trade deals that exploit immigrant labor and worsen conditions in other countries like Mexico.
Not allowing them to become US citizens
none
"I don't think there are any valid problems caused by illegal immigration. It is a ""problem"" created by the right wing of the GOP."
loss of enforcing immigration flow
use of services by non-taxpayers
Drugs
It creates xenophobic behaviour ie Donald Trump
Victimization in the workplace for illegals
Because they work under the table they have to accept lower wages than legal workers which depresses wages for everyone.
"Gets poor, lazy white people in a real tizzy."
American racism / Hispanophobia
"Not entering the US legally and having to hide and lie, not able to earn decent wages, being taken advantage of, not paying their way, some criminal activity"
Political animosity.
Scapegoating of immigrants
They pay taxes but receive little or no services from the taxes they pay
Making people upset because they fear the unknown.
turning people to supporting right-wing fascists
not enough services to help them become citizens
exploitation of immigrant population by U.S. businesses
None
they don't pay taxes
Lack of support to make illegals become legal.
No income
None.
Life
keeps wages low.
The predjudice undocumented immigrants face from ignorant Americans.
"Racism, bigotry and hate towards people that look different."
It gives conservatives something to complain about
Strain on social welfare spending.
The words of the Republican Party.
Intolerance to those people
None
Not sure
"That they are exploited by business and people the ""employ"" them."
Xenophobia
The extreme reaction of many Americans.
Security
Nothing
not having health insurance
Helps elect fascists and Republicans
not sure
None
Citizenship test is ridiculous.
none
I have no idea
Those that enter illegally don't have the same opportunities of well-being that citizens have
Politicias exploiting the situation
jobs
Crime
Culture shock/failure to assimilate
"Corporations that keep hiring illegals, pay them next to nothing, and get rewarded for it"
They are taken advantage of.
Not enough work for all
Loss of revenue for workers sending money to other countries and not paying taxes on money made here.
It lowers the wage people are willing to work for.
I don't think there is a big problem. Donald Trump is our biggest problem right now
US citizens who act in prejudicial ways and discriminate against immigrants
None
Conservative overreaction
Overcrowding schools and other institutions in certain areas.
Domestic fear
Fearmongering by those opposed to it
"folks unable to access social services, such as police protection, and partially unable to integrate with and fully participate in the broader society, creating or perpetuating more divisions in our society"
Unnecessary fear on the part of Americans.
the political debate about it.
Idiots who oppose it
Bigotry
ecoNot being integrated into the system.
hope of better living
possibly drain on u.s. funds for entitlement programs
"It makes people think they are authorized to carry out horrible racist, dehumanizing attacks on other people just based on the color of their skin, their accent, their culture, etc. - because they assume they are here illegally (even though in most cases that is a total lie; sometimes the people's families have been Americans for generations)."
hate crimes against immigrants
welfare fraud
Lowers wages
"Kids coming into schools not speaking English and not educated - schools can't meet the ""All students succeed"" requirements when we are accountable for immigrant children than we get six months before a standardized test. This leads to schools getting unsatisfactory rankings, teachers being fired, and loss of local controls simply because their community welcomes immigrants."
Possibility of exploitation of illegal immigrants and little to no legal protections.
Politics
Don't know
an underground economy where the immigrants are exploited
Republican demagoguery and xenophobia is the biggest problem cause by illegal immigration.
Right wing extremist rabble rousing.
jobs lost to illegal immigration
K lack of infrastructure
The only problem I see is the fearmongering bull$#!t spread by the media and conservatives
I don't know
status
Lowering the quality of jobs.
Fueling regressive politics by conservatives.
Nothing
"Criminals jumping borders to evade arrest should be dealt with, as well as any person committing a crime, whether legal or illegal immigrant status including citizens. Otherwise, let people live where they'd like."
Encourages young children to run away from their home countries on their own in dangerous conditions and they could get hurt/die/etc.
Less jobs on the market.
None
Deportation breaks up families. Desperate people trying to enter the US are often victims of criminal organizations.
taking our jobs
jobs loss
loss of taxes
It's a bogus talking point for Right Wing extremists.
Health
"None, as both legal and native treat each other the same and crime is crime no matter where you are from or live. Crime is high in certain ares because of a variety of factors that include internal and external factors. Surveys and data charts reflect the give group asked, it dose not reflect a group or country as whole."
Suppression of employee wages.
Economics and politics.
They're getting government benefits paid from tax revenues.
money leaving the economy
"living in conditions that are not safe, resulting in health and safety issues"
The xenophobes who want to keep them out -- or enslave them with below-minimum wages
That they don't have a path to citizenship
the strain on American jobs
Asian
Lower wages
Anger among people that are searching for a fall guy as Hitler did before WW2
most will work for less wages so others do not get those jobs but also if someone here wanted to work these jobs I believe they would already have them. Also some Americans are lazy. They fuss about immigrants but they don't do the job hunting they should.
The very few who break the law and hurt others
The Job Market
Regulations and raising taxes
Taking away jobs that most Americans wouldn't want anyway
Racism
gang membership
Illegal immigrants stick to their own beliefs and religion and politics and do not learn and adjust to the American way of life.
Nothing
criminal activity
we
jobs
CRIME
Don't actually see a problem.
Resources being wasted on arresting them.
"Giving conservatives ridiculous, exaggerated political fodder."
Precarious legal status for undocumented immigrants and their families
not sure...
Lawbreakers.
Xenophobia.
bureaucratic - as in documentation
None
no idea
overactive paranoid politicians
Drugs
republicans
Don't know
"We educate their children, but then do not let the children have the same rights as others. It's not their fault."
People's inability to work safely within the system. This leads to exploitation.
taking jobs
"They have no access to health care, and lack opportunity for a good job."
Exploitation of the immigrants by employers
Nothing
Nothing all
corporations paying slave wages to illegal workers keep in place terrible living standards and patriarchy
Immigrants often need Sofia services that may come at the cost of services to citizens
Not being able to afford college and authorities on their heels to separate families.
They can't obtain a drivers licensw
Bigotry
Education gaps
Illegals being taken advantage of by employers
Nothing
Sending US money over borders
fewer entry-level jobs for citizens
"I really do not believe illegal immigration causes any major problems, other than what politicians are now hyping."
Low wages for the undocumented immigrants
taxpayers paying for their healthcare
republican fear tactics
Used by right as propaganda issue
"The problems are caused by the way immigrants are treated, not by illegal immigration per se."
Racism
Our attitudes and laws are the problem is the biggest problem
The perception that they take away jobs for US born
Low wages and exploited workers.
undocumented migrants are subject to exploitation
None
uninsured health costs
"taxing our already thin resources in education and health care; illegal drivers cannot obtain driver's licenses, so if they get into an accident, they often hit and run"
Unsafe working conditions
They refuse to learn the language and culture.
Acessing tax payer systems they don't contribute to
mistreatment of all immigrants due to dumb people who do not realize what the real problem is
people taking advantage of them
No problems
The biggest problem is the harm being done to illegal immigrants. They are vulnerable in their own countries and on their journey here. Once they arrive in the US they are still vulnerable to a cycle of poverty and living in constant fear of many different things.
"Racism, tax avoidance, inability for undocumented immigrants to avail themselves of public serivces"
Crime
Crime
Bigotry
"Employers paying lower wages to undocumented aliens than is permitted by law, thereby harming the quality of life of the immigrants who are being underpaid, etc and and taking jobs away from citizens and legal residents who would demand a fair, legal wage."
Fear
Not fair to those waiting for legal immigration
Reactionary government officials
Undeserved families...families separated or in constant fear of separation.
"xenophobia by Americans, but really that is caused by Americans, not the immigrants who desperate to live in a society where they can be safe, healthy and happy and where they can be productive, contributing citizens to the greater society."
"Not fully paying taxes (i.e., income taxes)"
Racist's panties getting in a wad
Political distraction when it's used as a wedge issue to divide and conquer voters based on their fears.
Lack of ability to collect taxes
not a huge problem
na
Smuggling and national security threats
Perhaps the immigrants becoming dependent on the gov for their existence
keeps some wages too low
None
Crime
"The racist, bigoted hate mongers who don't want them here. Example: Trump and his followers."
employers taking advantage of their labor and the immigrants not paying taxes
Money
mistreatment of illegal workers by unscrupulous employers
money and benefits
the immigrants are poorly treated
Pressure on social services.
It gives right-wing nut jobs something to whine about
attitudes
the republican hypocritical bigots
Poor working conditions for people here illegally. Lack of access to jobs for children of illegal immigrants.
slave labor
discrimination
Ignorant people using them as a scapegoat
fear
It gives right wing nut jobs something to complain about.
overcrowding
Can't think of any.
Racist bigots like Trump
Inflamed right wing racists.
They are not bound by our laws and when they commit a crime they do not have to bear the consequences.
Process to become a citizen takes too long
"increase in unreported exploitation of immigrants, they do not interact with local law enforcement when they are exploited out of fear."
Not a problem except for those who have a narrow world view.
High cost of enforcement
do not think there are any problems created by it
"Undocumented workers can take jobs from relatively unskilled citizens, but this has been much exaggerated."
Creation of a class of people who don't have access to institutions like law enforcement to defend their rights
nothing
I don't think illegal immigration is the cause of any problems.
Not paying taxes
Crime
Unable to determine criminal behavior
The gap between Rich and poor
Lack of healthcare access
human trafficking
"wages for low income families doesn't keep pace with inflation, and slows the goal for a living wage"
Wage suppression
rebublican hysteria
may be undesireables
none
Poor living and healthcare conditions
They don't pay taxes.
the loss of taxes
The hatred shown by politicians and people in response to undocumented immigrants.
Donald Trump
"lack of empathy for people trying to escape countries the USA is complicit in destroying, and then taking that lack of empathy to pass cruel laws."
Racism and bigotry as a backlash.
work
The U.S. reaction to it as in ICE. Families that have been here for so long and have assimilated and contributed are then deported for no rational reason.
The loss of unwanted migratory farming jobs
Politicians
No problems
None
Not paying taxes
Wages
Xenophobia.
"There are no inherent problems with illegal immigration, it's all how US citizens are responding to it negatively and not helping people."
Racist white Americans coming out of the woodwork
I dont know
They get the benefits that belong the American citizens deserve
"The creation of a permanent, poorly educated underclass doomed to servitude."
Fear & hatred from U.S. citizens toward immigrants
not sure
Loss in tax revenue and increase in insurance rates and ER .
Taken Jobs
The republicans turn it into a political football
crowd our schools and welfare rolls
N/A
downward pressure on wages for working class
Immigrants reliance on public aid
Nothing
They do not pay taxes
None
The way undocumented immigrants are treated
Healthcare costs
Nothing
JOBS
Politics
Republicans inciting hate against them
I think the biggest problem is the actions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
na
nos
I don't see it as a problem. I just think that we need a better path to citizenship.
raising the cost of healthcare for everybody
Lower wages.
"Narrow-minded, fearful people who believe that anyone who is different is a ""problem"""
"The ability of the US government to make these people who apply for citizenship, citizens . . . antiquated method still being used."
Idiot Americans prejudice
paying fair share of taxes
tax burden (such as welfare benefits paid)
Lower wages
Overcrowding
Overcrowding
None?
Lack of assimilation
Nothing.
Placing them in job
ER expenses
Racist white people thinking that illegal immigration is a problem are the biggest problem with illegal immigration.
Drugs
Conflict between political parties
irrationality by Republican demagoges
Rabid republicans
"Drain on our resources i.e. education, healthcare."
job loss
taking jobs
Crime
None
"inaccurate population measures, accounting for resource distribution, human trafficking"
Lower working standards in the industries the immigrants work in.
Crimes
School system fund depletion
"Poor treatment of illegal immigrants by their ""employers"". Since employment is under the table, ""employers"" are not required to pay them fairly, or treat them properly."
Lower wages
Not paying taxes
No access to healthcare and services
Poverty due to their inability to obtain help
Bigotry by nativist Americans
go fuck yourself
"finding a way to eventually assimilate them into the country, getting them housed, employed and paying taxes"
Not sure
nothing
burden on taxpayers
Giving blowhard conservatives who want to divide the country and scare everyone into voting for their horrible policies ammo.
crime
Nothing
loss of jobs
None
Exploitation of vulnerable immigrants.
It's a blown up problem to insight fear for political gain.
Ignorance by the people against them being here.
Jobs
Taxes not being paid for earned income
Not sure
There are people here who exploit illegal immigrants
The idiots who want to hurt them
Exploitation of the immigrants by trafficters who lead the poor to decide there is no other way.
Drugs
Abuse of the immigrants
That it's illegal.
I think that sometimes we are a dumping ground for people other countries don't want.
racism
People like Trump want to build a wall.
There are no problems caused by illegal immigration
assitance
Tax payers spending money on lawmakers who spend too much time focusing on illegal immigration
Underclass of employees too afraid to assert their rights
People entering for criminal purposes.
They arent the problem. Government opinion is.
Immigrants stealing the identities of Americans in order to work in the US.
"flooded influx flow makes it difficult to keep up with, accommodate, and take care of them all at once."
Loss of jobs for americans
the racism of white folks in the US
None
political divisiveness
The way people react to the idea. The fervor caused by the idea of illegal immigration is causing people to behave like insane imbiciles.
"Employers hiring undocumented workers and paying them below wages, hurting all other documented workers."
Immigrants not paying taxes
Racist backlash from conservatives.
no problems worse then what is already here
A strain on public services.
"It forces people to live in hiding. I don't believe immigration is a bad thing. In fact, I wish all borders around the world were open. I would love to immigrate to a different country and experience a different culture. I truly believe when we experience other cultures, we expand our own knowledge and understanding of others."
Poverty
Political divisiveness and hate
wage suppression
NA
Unpaid use of healthcare resources.
I don't think it's as big a problem as people think.
NONE
Education availabilty
fair taxation
People getting upset over it.
Dissension over immigration policy
Prejudice
People take advantage of illegal immigrants for cheap labor
Not sure
Taxation without representation
Conservatives vote for morons like Trump.
Racist assholes
A person always worried about being deported
Xenophobia
none
"The biggest problem are the racist xenophobes that fearmonger, not the immigrants themselves"
Not sure
loss of tax dollars
xenophobia and nationalism
Dumb shits who can't speak english.
medical cost
"Their children not being able to access the same opportunities as American-born children, despite growing up here"
None.
Gun
There isn't sufficient manpower to deal with it at the border.
Angry republicans
Not sure
Immigrants taken advantage of
Political reaction to it.
I don't think they cause any problems.
None
Possibly taking jobs from legal American citizens.
dont know
Their inability to vite
Housing-there isn't enough low income housing in American cities today-in the country side there is-that outside of the statistical metropolitan areas.Second is assimilation into culture-and that's the Americans fault
They are treated badly.
Racism and hatred from the extreme right
I don't know
Conservatives thinking its OK to be incredibly racist toward brown-skinned people.
Families being split up by members being deported
"Because of their illegal status, they are not able to safely utilize police and other emergency services, leaving them and others at risk. If they could be integrated, given a path to legal citizenship or residency, then this risk could be mitigated."
low wage and poor working conditions for illegal immigrants
Not sure
Exploitation of the immigrants
The number of racists/nationalists who try to harm the immigrants in some way
"welfare recipients, not following the rules to come here legally"
Deportation
Xenophobic backlash from nativists
The dangerous conditions that immigrants live in trying to survive in the US. Also the damage done to families torn apart.
jerbs
Conservative hysteria
im not sure
messes in other countries
Employers can pay illegal immigrants wages that are far below the minimum wage. Also U.S. ICE wastes millions of tax dollars trying to deport illegal immigrants who return anyway
I don't know my mother is hear illegal an I'm worried but she been hear over 25 yrs I was born in the u.s but Mexicans I don't mind cause they come hear for work other countries I feel is a threat
Donald trump
Job security/economic changes
no issue for me
"crime, drug and human trafficing"
finding a better life
Businesses hiring them dirt cheap for cash to keep it under the table. less in taxes getting payed.
"when they are parents, making it tough on the children to deal with being illegals"
None.
Drug trafficking
Over crowding
"Too much money is being spent on finding, detaining, and deporting immigrants. Easier path to citizenship is needed."
Not paying income tax.
Trade deals such as NAFTA
jobs.
Takes resources away from other agencies to patrol borders and police communities.
THE TOTAL LACK OF CONSISTENT LEGISLATION.
the journey across the border is dangerous
N/A
The lack of care and security that the immigrants feel
Providing Donald Trump with a platform
Racism and prejudice by white americans towards minorities
Exploitation of undocumented workers' labor
Not paying taxes on the wages they make
Conservatives keep getting their panties in a twist over it.
People complain about illegal immigration.
Labor exploitation
Donald Trump
Republicans
Lack of taxes paid
"The people that are super rich, but still have government healthcare, along with low-interest business loans"
