I want to thank John Allard, Doug Thomson, and everyone here at Granite State Manufacturing for hosting us today. Here in this facility, you can see the way productivity and innovation from our private economy play a vital role in our national security. You can see the development of cutting edge systems designed to outfit Tomahawk missiles in the air, special purpose vehicles on land, destroyers on the sea, and even Virginia-class submarines hundreds of feet below it. You can see robots that sweep for mines and dispose of bombs, and innovations that make our servicemen and women safer, more precise, and more advanced than any enemy they currently face. The innovative nature of our private economy is one of many national security advantages that are built into who we are as a nation. The problem is that our many advantages are being compromised today by a major weakness, and that is an outdated political establishment in Washington, D.C. We have leaders at the highest levels of our government who believe the world would be better off with a weaker, less engaged America; who make national security decisions based on politics rather than strategy; and who fail to recognize that in today’s global economy, foreign policy and domestic policy are inseparable. These outdated leaders come from both parties and both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. Their policies have undermined American strength — discouraging our allies, emboldening our enemies, and endangering our people. Under President Obama, defense spending has been cut by nearly a trillion dollars over a decade. Our Navy is now smaller than at any time since World War I, our Army is headed for pre-World War II levels, and our Air Force has the smallest and oldest combat force in its history. And the forces we have are not ready to fight. Just one-third of Army brigade combat teams and less than half of Air Force fighter squadrons are fully combat ready, and the Navy has only one-third of the carrier strike groups and amphibious ready groups that it needs to respond to a crisis within 30 days. America’s adversaries around the world have taken note of this. They are sprinting up behind us, investing heavily in their own forces to close the gap in military strength. China has increased its defense spending by another 10% this year, and Russia by more than 20-fold since this century began. They and many other nations recognize what so many in Washington do not: that the future of warfare will not take place merely on land, sea, and in the air, but also in cyberspace, outer space, undersea, and overhead in the form of powerful new missiles. We cannot survive the global perils of the 21st century with a military built for the 20th. Yet that is exactly what bad policymaking and a badly strained defense budget are forcing us to attempt. The last seven years should be all the evidence we need that it isn’t working. The world has become more dangerous while America has become less prepared. The threats to our security have widened while our president’s vision has narrowed. Russia has invaded its neighbors, threatened the power balance of post-Cold War Europe, and is now projecting power into Syria to defend a murderous dictator and undermine the United States. China has sought to intimidate its neighbors and dominate the South China Sea, one of the most vital shipping lanes on earth. It has stolen intellectual property from our companies and conducted the largest cyber attack ever against our government. North Korea is developing nuclear-tipped missiles that can hit the United States, and has lashed out with a massive cyberattack. ISIS has created a medieval terrorist state and inspired imitators from North Africa to South Asia. Iran has advanced its goals of acquiring nuclear weapons and dominating the entire Middle East. And that is only a partial list. As president, Hillary Clinton would write the sequel to President Obama’s disastrous foreign policy, sticking to the same theme of weakness and the same plot of retreat. I am running for president because America faces new threats in this century, and new leadership will be required to face them. I have the record of judgment, the breadth of experience, and the quality of leadership necessary to restore our strength and security. As Commander-in-Chief, I will understand that defense policy is foreign policy. By maintaining the strength to defeat aggression, we deter aggression — and that gives time and space for the tools of soft power to work. Today I’d like to share a few of my ideas on how to bring our national defense into the 21st century. This isn’t the first time I’ve spoken in detail on this subject, nor will I have time in one speech to present my entire plan, so I’d encourage you to check out [1]my full plan for Restoring American Strength at MarcoRubio.com. I’d like to focus my remarks today on the importance of modernizing our forces to restore readiness and innovating to meet future threats. These goals will both require reversing the devastating defense cuts that have occurred on President Obama’s watch, particularly those resulting from sequestration. As Commander-in-Chief, I will heed the recommendation of the bipartisan National Defense Panel and return as soon as possible to the forward-thinking, strategy-driven, and fiscally sustainable budget baseline proposed by Secretary of Defense Robert Gates in 2012 before sequestration took effect. A budget of this size is essential if we want a modern national defense. Look simply at the cost of modernizing our nuclear deterrent — an undertaking of increasing importance as more nations obtain nuclear weapons. This alone will cost up to $18 billion a year over the next decade. The current administration hasn’t made this a priority. As Commander-in-Chief, I will. I will prioritize additional defense dollars to address critical readiness shortfalls, fix training and maintenance backlogs, and ensure our troops are ready to deploy rapidly. Then I will set about modernizing our forces on land, sea, and in the air. This is the first goal of restoring American Strength, for we cannot worry about innovating for the future if we do not first survive the present. The threats we face in these traditional theaters of war are growing and changing, and our forces must grow and change to meet them. We cannot pick and choose which threats we will meet. The United States must be a “full spectrum” superpower, capable of maintaining security simultaneously in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. A threat in any one of these regions could endanger our security, yet we have not previously sized our forces for all the contingencies they may face. As President, I will ensure we have the number of personnel we need to meet these challenges. And I will ensure our personnel have the tools they need to succeed. As President, I will never send our troops into a fair fight; I will always equip them with the upper hand and the technological edge. But today, unfortunately, they are forced to use weapons systems developed during the 1970s and ’80s, from Ticonderoga-class cruisers to Abrams tanks to B-2 Stealth bombers. Others are even older, such as the B-52, which has been flying since 1955. If I become president, the days when a father, son and grandson all fly the same plane will be over. To continue owning the skies against advanced fighters and missiles, we need to invest in technologies that allow us to see the enemy first, and we need laser or electromagnetic weapons to shoot down enemy missiles and aircraft. To maintain our superiority beneath the seas, I will ensure funding for the Ohio-class replacement program. It is vital to maintaining a robust nuclear triad and to America’s undersea deterrent capabilities. It’s not fully funded now in our defense plans, but it will be if I become president. Modernization of our undersea capabilities will directly impact the work done here in this facility. As president, I will order at least two Virginia-class submarines to be built each year, and many of the components of these will be forged and formed right behind me — by the men and women in front of me. They will also be maintained at Portsmouth naval shipyard here in New Hampshire. Those advocating for the closing of this facility have failed to grasp the importance of our defense industrial base to our national security. That is why I join your Senator, Kelly Ayotte, who has been a great leader on these issues in Washington, in opposing a new BRAC round. The final point I’d like to make about modernization is a vitally important one — not just to our security, but to our character as a nation. The duty to equip our military personnel for success does not end with the battle, but continues here at home. This is why I have led the fight in the Senate to create an accountable Department of Veterans Affairs, and it’s why I will continue that fight in the White House. Modernization is crucial to restoring security today. But even as we modernize our forces on land, sea, and in the air, we must never assume future wars will be fought in the same way as wars of the past. That is why modernization must go hand in hand with innovation. I’m sure many in Washington will roll their eyes when they hear me talk about realms such as cyber space and outer space as the new battlefields of our age. Many still see these as the stuff of science fiction. And this assumption — dangerous as it is — is nothing new. The nature of warfare is always changing, and leaders of the past are almost always blind to the changes. When Billy Mitchell — considered by many to be the father of the U.S. Air Force — warned in 1921 that airplanes would one day be capable of sinking battleships, he was mocked all across Washington. The Secretary of the Navy responded by saying, quote, “Good God! This man should be writing dime novels.” The attack on Pearl Harbor put those doubts to rest. As quickly as the airplane evolved as a tool of warfare, evolutions in cyber space, outer space, and missile capabilities are happening far faster. In cyber space alone, we’ve seen the headlines. Rogue nations and terrorist groups have been testing the fences of American cyber security with attacks on both government and private companies. A large enough cyber attack could paralyze our critical infrastructure and economy, yet somehow we still remain unprepared to face the threat. As President, I will ensure we harden our military and civilian computer networks, and examine the sourcing of our weapons components so they are not vulnerable to attack. I will invest in offensive cyber capabilities and ensure our commanders have the tools and authorities to respond to an attack. My administration will outline a declaratory policy so our adversaries understand the consequences of attacking our cyber systems. We must also be aware of the increasing strategic and economic importance of outer space. Americans rely on satellites for everything from checking the weather, to GPS navigation, to communicating on our smart phones. Our military also relies heavily on space for the full range of its missions, from intelligence, to reconnaissance, to targeting. Because of our dependence on space, adversaries are actively developing capabilities that could put U.S. assets at risk. For example, China has conducted multiple anti-satellite tests. As President, I will invest in technologies to protect our space capabilities. We must also invest in missile defense. The 21st century differs fundamentally from the Cold War era, yet the Obama administration has not moved beyond the missile defense policies of the past. Hostile regimes such as North Korea see missiles and nuclear weapons as means of blackmailing the United States. We should be working to take away any adversary’s ability to coerce us with these threats. But the Obama administration has instead slashed spending on missile defense by 30% since 2009 and canceled plans to deploy vital missile defense programs in a failed effort to appease Russia’s leaders. As President, I will end policy limitations on the development and deployment of missile defense. I will fully fund missile defense programs to ensure we take maximum advantage of modern technologies and stay ahead of this growing threat. Finally, as all of you in this room know, true advances in innovation will only be possible if we sustain a dynamic and healthy defense industrial base. We must open new pathways between the private sector and the Pentagon so our warfighters can gain access to the latest innovations. For example, advances in 3D printing could revolutionize the way we manufacture parts. It could allow fast, on-demand production in times of need at much more affordable prices. Our economy is constantly producing innovations such as this that, if creatively applied to our defense needs, could greatly benefit our national security. But taking advantage of them will require cutting layers of unnecessary bureaucracy at the Pentagon and making our acquisitions process more nimble and adaptive. The innovative nature of our people is on display in this facility every day, and it gives me great optimism about the future of American Strength. I’d like to close by noting that we are almost exactly one year away from choosing the next president of the United States. I believe the year ahead will be characterized, in no small part, by a national debate on the very subject we’re discussing today. If ever an issue should rise above the pettiness of political gamesmanship, the importance of a strong and modern national defense should be it. But I know that’s wishful thinking. Many of our outdated leaders will continue to posture on this issue and mischaracterize my support for American Strength. They’ll continue promoting what I believe to be the most dangerous misconception of our time — the very misconception our current president has clung to, and that has driven the discord we see around the world today. And that is the idea that a strong military is somehow a path to war. The exact opposite is true. A robust national defense has always been about preventing war rather than promoting it. And presidents from both parties — from Kennedy to Reagan — have understood that fact. They have understood that the world is at its safest when America is at its strongest. President Truman grasped as well as anyone the relationship between strength and peace. It was he who advocated for the creation of the Department of Defense. In doing so, he stated, “[A] desire for peace is futile unless there is also enough strength ready and willing to enforce that desire in any emergency. Among the things that have encouraged aggression and the spread of war in the past have been the unwillingness of the United States realistically to face this fact.” Here we stand seventy years later, and so many of our leaders are once again unwilling to face this fact — and that unwillingness is once again encouraging aggression and the spread of war throughout the world. I am running for president because if we do not return to the bipartisan tradition of American Strength — and return to it soon — the tide of danger and discord that has swept the world in recent years will grow stronger, and that tide will eventually drag down our economy, wash away our influence, and bring danger to our shores that we will be unprepared to meet. I am ready to argue this case to America and the world in the years ahead. I will not tire in my efforts, and I will not flag in my optimism for the future. Our nation has great reservoirs of strength we have not yet begun to tap: a dynamic and resilient people, a creative economy our adversaries cannot hope to match, and friends and partners all over the world who are waiting for us to recover our confidence. With these strengths we cannot be discouraged, for with these strengths, we cannot fail. So I ask you to join me today. With strength as our organizing principle, and peace our ultimate goal, let us recommit to the task of leadership and the cause of freedom — and let us establish, together, a New American Century. Thank you.



As many of you know, I’ve based my campaign for president on the question of how we can make the 21st century a New American Century. And the topic we’re here to discuss today is a crucial component of my plan to achieve that goal. The energy industry is central to our future in every way – in terms of our economic growth, in terms of the financial security of our families, and in terms of our strength as a global leader. The fortunate truth is that America is uniquely blessed with energy resources, more than we realized we had even ten years ago. There are multiple nations on earth with a great deal of oil and natural gas. There are multiple nations with access to important oceanic and hydroelectric resources. There are multiple nations with lush forests and tillable land. But there is no nation that has all of these at the same time and to the same extent that America does. The fact that we have the greatest energy potential of any nation on the planet is an enormous advantage for us in this century. It is hard to think of a single industry that has a more direct impact on the financial wellbeing of everyday Americans than the energy industry. Our energy resources truly sustain our human resources. Our businesses need to be able to operate affordably and efficiently in order to create jobs and grow our economy, our families need reasonable gas and electric bills in order to reach financial security, and working moms and dads need to be able to commute to work without breaking the bank. Yet despite its importance, our outdated government continues to make energy one of the most politicized and regulated aspects of our economy. Washington continues to lean on the notion that handing out subsidies to favored companies while imposing new mandates and taxes on others is the way to seize our energy potential. But this didn’t work yesterday, it isn’t working today, and it’s not going to work tomorrow. Many regulations are concerned with protecting the environment, and some of these are important. We all want clean air to breath and clean water to drink. We all want to preserve the natural beauty of our land. But while many of the environmental concerns influencing regulations are legitimate, others are seriously overblown. As a result, we have a small but vocal minority, with some very highly paid lobbyists, who have successfully pushed for regulations that result in higher prices and fewer jobs for our people in exchange for minimal environmental benefits. I believe that the vast majority of Americans – both Democrats and Republicans – are very reasonable when it comes to balancing ecology with the economy. And I believe it is conservatives, not liberals, who ultimately have the more sustainable and forward-looking agenda. This is because the true path to an economically and environmentally secure energy future is not through regulation, but through innovation. And innovation comes from less government involvement, not more. It is private innovators, not government officials, who are best suited to discover cleaner, cheaper, and more efficient ways to access our resources. It is private innovators, not government officials, who are best suited to find affordable fuel alternatives, or to continue developing substitutes such as electric and battery powered vehicles. America’s energy future must be entrusted to our businesses and scientists, not our bureaucrats. And finding ways to empower our energy producers to capture our energy potential should be a priority for every presidential candidate. Unfortunately, what we hear from Hillary Clinton are more of the same ideas from yesterday – and that’s when she speaks up on the issue at all. For the most part, she resorts to empty rhetoric that refuses to chart much of a course in either direction. This is no way to treat one of the most important issues of our time. I will be rolling out a detailed plan this fall for capturing our energy potential. But I’d like to give you a short preview of that plan today. One of the first things I will do as president is immediately lift the ban on crude-oil exports. This ban is a perfect example of just how outdated Washington has become. President Nixon signed it into law in the 1970s – long before the economy was transformed by technology and globalization, long before the hydraulic fracturing and shale revolutions launched a new era for American energy. Lifting the crude-oil export ban will be an immediate boon to our economy. It will create hundreds of thousands of American jobs and promote growth across every industry. It will help make America a net energy exporter within a few years. It will strengthen our national security interests by stabilizing global energy markets and reducing the leverage of oil-rich anti-American governments. Here’s another common-sense step I will take as president: I will stop the EPA’s Clean Power Plan, which, if enacted, would have a devastating impact on affordable energy in exchange for little to no environmental benefit. It would result in the closure of coal-fired power plants around the country. It would kill thousands of jobs. It would jeopardize the reliability of our national power grid, threatening power shortages and even blackouts. It would truly be one of the most expensive and costly regulations ever created. Yet Hillary Clinton has pledged to make defending and expanding it a “top priority.” As president, I will immediately stop this massive regulation. I’ll pursue a sweeping overhaul of the regulatory system to make sure costs and benefits of new rules are accurately accounted for and that localities, states, and industries can meet the timelines I set forward. The days of arbitrary, damaging rules like the Clean Power Plan and the so-called “Waters of the U.S. mandate” will come to an end. And that brings me to one final step I’d like to preview today, which is the work I will do as president to empower states to regulate energy production within their own borders. Senator Lankford has been a bold leader on this issue. As he’ll tell you, Washington is currently on a crusade to take control of energy production away from the states. For example, the Bureau of Land Management is pursuing new, duplicative restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. State and local governments are far better equipped than Washington to oversee energy production and balance environmental concerns. Not only that, but anyone and everyone running for president needs to understand a basic truth: the Constitution grants very specific powers to the federal government, and if something isn’t on that list, it falls under the purview of the states. So when I take an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States, I am going to take that oath very seriously – and that will include allowing the states to control their own energy futures. Oklahoma is proof of the ability of states to achieve their own energy potential. It is now the 4th largest natural gas producer in the U.S., and the entire energy industry led to $65 billion in gross state product in 2013 and supports more than 465,000 jobs. That’s a staggering 20 percent of the state’s labor force. Oklahoma has been at the forefront of the shale revolution, which has helped turn America into the number one oil and natural gas producer in the world. Nationally, lower energy costs driven by new technologies have already helped America become competitive again in sectors where we had begun to lag, such as manufacturing. This growth and revival can continue across all industries, and it will continue if we unleash our energy potential, and it must continue if we want to make the 21st century an American Century.



Ever since then–secretary of state Hillary Clinton announced a “reset” of relations with Russia in 2009, the consequences of six years of failed U.S. policy toward Russia have played out in the annexation of Crimea and the battlefields of eastern Ukraine. This policy has also helped prolong the humanitarian and strategic nightmare that Syria has become. Somehow, as the evidence of failure grows, President Obama still can’t seem to understand Vladimir Putin’s goals. Putin wants nothing less than the recognition of Russia as a geopolitical force. He has already achieved this in Europe, and he is now pursuing the same goal in the Middle East, exploiting the vacuum left by President Obama’s “leading from behind” approach. Since the outbreak of the revolt in 2011 against Russian ally Bashar al-Assad, President Obama and his aides have tried to involve Putin in a negotiated solution. Rounds of negotiations in Geneva produced a theoretical framework for a “transition” process in Syria that did not require Assad to step down. Time and again, Russia has defended Assad at the United Nations and prevented meaningful actions to hasten the end of the conflict. Even U.S. efforts to work with Russia to rid Syria of its chemical weapons have failed. Obama worked with Putin to negotiate a deal whereby Assad agreed to give up his chemical weapons in return for an American commitment not to bomb him. The result was a deal that Assad did not fully honor. There has been ample evidence in recent months that the regime and now ISIS forces continue to use chemicals as weapons of war. Despite all of this, President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry have remained naively optimistic that Russia can be part of the solution in Syria. On July 14, the day he announced a disastrous deal with Assad’s Iranian patrons, the president told the New York Times: “I was encouraged by the fact that Mr. Putin called me a couple of weeks ago and initiated the call to talk about Syria. . . . That offers us an opportunity to have a serious conversation with them.” Yet despite that “serious conversation,” in recent weeks Russia, which already has a naval base in the Syrian port city of Tartus, has been building up its military forces in Syria. The Russians are constructing an air base and bringing in troops, including veterans of their dirty war in Ukraine, along with aircraft to help prop up Assad at a time when regime forces have been losing ground. Despite a flurry of desperate telephone calls from several Obama-administration officials to their Russian counterparts, Putin, perhaps hoping to distract attention from the continued chaos in eastern Ukraine, has not suspended Russia’s buildup in Syria. Reportedly, some administration officials even hope to cooperate with the Russians against ISIS in Syria, just as President Obama has tried to cooperate with another U.S. enemy, Iran, in Iraq. As for Russia, we need to recognize that the “reset” has failed and that the U.S. must confront Putin’s assault on international security. The U.S. and the European Union have already imposed some sanctions on Russia, but we need to do much more to bar Russian firms, especially state-owned firms, from Western markets. We need to recognize that the “reset” has failed and that the U.S. must confront Putin’s assault on international security. The U.S. also needs to help the victims of Russian aggression by providing arms, not just “nonlethal” supplies, to the democratically elected government of Ukraine. And NATO should station more than token forces in member states bordering Russia, because Putin must learn that he cannot get away with doing to the Baltics what he has already done to Ukraine. We need to make clear to Putin that we do not welcome Russia’s assistance in the fight against ISIS. Russian support for Assad’s slaughter of the Syrian people is only laying the groundwork for more decades of conflict and instability in an already fractured Syria. If Russia does not halt and reverse its military buildup in Syria, the U.S. should sanction the Russian defense companies and the individuals involved. Countries surrounding Syria that enable these actions by allowing Russian military overflights also need to know there will be a price for enabling Putin’s expansionism. In sum, we need to replace a policy of weakness with a policy of strength. We need to restore American leadership and make clear to our adversaries that they will pay a significant price for aggression. President Obama’s policies of retreat and retrenchment are making the world a more dangerous place. The Obama–Clinton Russia policy has already undermined European security. We can’t let Putin wreak even more havoc in the Middle East.



In February 2011, I stepped into my first classified briefing as a member of the Senate’s intelligence committee. The focus that day was on the Arab Spring that had begun to unfold in North Africa, and part of the Monday morning quarterbacking that day was about what more our intelligence community could have done—or what resources they needed—to better anticipate such a consequential turn of events. Those would be the first of hundreds of hours I would spend over the next four and a half years overseeing our nation’s intelligence services and programs, and regularly considering what more we can be doing to equip our intelligence services with the tools they need to keep us safe. During this period, I’ve seen the consequences that President Barack Obama’s foreign policy has had on the world and our interests abroad. Under his leadership, the world has become a more dangerous place, our allies doubt whether America is still a nation of its word when it comes to our security commitments, and we’ve embarked on a dangerous unilateral disarmament of intelligence-gathering tools through policy reversals from the White House and mindless budget cuts due to sequestration. This month, the Obama administration will begin the process of dismantling one such program that has helped to keep our people safe since the 9/11 terrorist attacks. This so-called “Section 215 metadata program” authorized by the Patriot Act, which was closely overseen by Congress and the courts for more than a decade, has allowed us to thwart terrorist plots. Contrary to the popularly accepted lie that this program allowed the U.S. government to spy on Americans and listen in on their phone calls, it simply enabled business records to be collected by phone companies and stored by the National Security Agency in a database that could be checked only when there was a known or suspected terrorist nexus. This program received rigorous oversight from Congress and the judiciary. Unfortunately, misinformation, fear-mongering and the allure of campaign fundraising all contributed to its expiration, its explicit prohibition in the future, and its replacement with a weaker and untested system that fails to require phone companies to maintain records that we may one day need to track terrorists. Rather than use what power remains in his bully pulpit, President Obama opted to be a bystander and let this program be killed, even though he had previously championed it. Even worse, the White House clearly sent the message to the heads of the intelligence agencies that they needed to stand down from advocating for the program. As a result, the American people are now less safe. Treating terrorism like a purely law enforcement function and returning our intelligence community to a pre-9/11 footing needlessly exposes the American people to the dangers of a radically changed and more dangerous world. A major challenge for the next president will be to fix the weakened intelligence system that the current one is leaving behind. This will entail re-equipping our intelligence community with the authorities to quickly connect the dots between terrorist conspirators and ensure the intelligence community has the ability and tools to efficiently narrow the focus of an investigation to uncover plots and save valuable time and resources in the course of terrorist investigations in which time is absolutely of the essence. With the right tools and a dedicated workforce, we can protect our people and our homeland from another terrorist attack while remaining true to our identity as the freest nation on earth. This belief is not based on a theory, on a campaign briefing, or on something I read in a book or newspaper. It’s based on four and a half years of seeing the results with my own eyes. We need clear leadership from the commander-in-chief to confront the myriad of national security challenges facing the nation. It is increasingly clear that the task of ensuring that those we entrust to protect us have every tool they need for the job will fall to the next president. It is also apparent that through their demagoguery on this issue, through their support for abandoning these crucial programs or through their outright silence that some who aspire to that office are not up to the challenge any more than President Obama is. There is no duty more important than rising to this challenge because Americans lives are on the line.



Today is the 70th anniversary of the allied victory in Europe — a day that stands as one of the greatest triumphs of freedom over oppression, liberty over tyranny, and good over evil in the history of the world. It speaks to the power of free peoples and free nations uniting together to pursue shared security and shared prosperity. Even after 70 years, the U.S.-European partnership continues to play a vital role in global affairs. The defense of our people, the promotion of our interests, and the stability of an increasingly interconnected world all require us to cooperate closely, particularly given the renewed challenges we face. One such challenge is Russia’s blatant attempt to overturn the post-World War II order in Europe. Handling this crisis will require innovative thinking from our alliance. Our goal should never be to needlessly antagonize Russia, but rather to ensure our efforts to strengthen Ukraine and rollback Russian aggression are coupled with a forward-looking agenda for Russia’s own future. We also know, however, that we must never allow our desire for peace to lead us into weakness or inaction. We cannot continue to stand idly by while red line after red line is crossed and ceasefire after ceasefire is violated. Reversing this cycle will require America and our European partners to take a series of important steps. First, we must commit to military reinforcement of Eastern Europe. Instead of the temporary, mobile military presence deployed to NATO’s frontier, the United States should end planned force drawdowns in the region and work with allies to ensure that the European Reassurance Initiative leads to a more permanent forward defense. Second, in the absence of transatlantic agreement on steps such as barring Russia from access to SWIFT, the United States should extend the “sectoral” sanctions currently in place against Russia’s unconventional oil sector to the traditional oil or gas sectors; execute a statutory export ban on certain equipment and technology to Russia (e.g., relating to energy or defense); and impose true sectoral sanctions, as we have imposed against Iran (e.g., no foreign investment, provision of services, or involvement in exports or imports). We also need to sanction additional Russian officials, including those affiliated with Gazprom and other state-owned entities as well as others involved in human rights abuses. Third, we must allow the liberalization of US gas exports. There is broad bipartisan support in the United States Congress for allowing natural gas exports to European allies. More U.S. gas on the global market will create global liquidity and alternative supply options for Ukraine and American allies, drive down prices, put pressure on Russia to re-negotiate the gas pipeline contracts that it uses as political leverage against its neighbors, and create jobs. Fourth, we must provide increased assistance to Ukraine. The United States and willing allies must provide weaponry to help Ukraine defend itself. I believe it is a violation of our values to withhold arms assistance while Ukrainians are dying at the hands of Russian soldiers or because of Russian-provided weaponry. Economic assistance is also key. The Ukrainian economy faces significant pressures as Russia attempts to use the withholding of energy and finance as a weapon. To mitigate this, transatlantic assistance must be better-coordinated. Fifth, we must enlarge NATO. Allies need to overcome the roadblocks to enlargement before the next NATO summit — including by inviting Montenegro to join the alliance — and to reaffirm that the open door policy is still intact and applies to any NATO aspirant, including Ukraine if it so chooses. Forged during the effort to bind postwar Europe together and to America, and proven through decades of the East-West conflict, NATO remains central to our security. A more robust response to Russia’s ongoing aggression in Ukraine would reflect the same shared values that emerged victorious 70 years ago today. That victory was not just about the defeat of an enemy; it was also about the spread of a sacred ideal. As is written on the World War II memorial in Washington, D.C.: “Americans came to liberate, not to conquer — to restore freedom and to end tyranny.” As we face our own challenges today, let us never forget the sacrifices made by our ancestors 70 years ago. Let us always remember that the freedoms we cherish now were preserved by those who came before us, and that just like the greatest generation, we have a duty to preserve liberty for all those in the transatlantic community and beyond.



Thank you. After months of deliberation and prayer about the future of our country, I have come here tonight to make an announcement on how I believe I can best serve her. I chose to make this announcement at the Freedom Tower because it is a symbol of our nation’s identity as the land of opportunity. And I am more confident than ever that despite our troubles, we have it within our power to make our time another American Century. In this very room five decades ago, tens of thousands of Cuban exiles began their new lives in America. Their story is part of the larger story of the American miracle. How, united by a common faith in their God given right to go as far as their talent and work would take them, a collection of immigrants and exiles, former slaves and refugees, became one people, and together built the freest and most prosperous nation ever. For almost all of human history, power and wealth belonged only to a select few. Most people who have ever lived were trapped by the circumstances of their birth, destined to live the life their parents had. But America is different. Here, we are the children and grandchildren of people who refused to accept this. Both of my parents were born to poor families in Cuba. After his mother died when he was nine, my father left school to go work. My mother was one of seven girls raised by a disabled father who struggled to provide for his family. When they were young, my parents had big dreams for themselves. But because they were not born into wealth or power, their future was destined to be defined by their past. So in 1956 they came here, to the one place on earth where the aspirations of people like them could be more than just dreams. My father became a bartender. My mother a cashier, a maid and a Kmart stock clerk. They never made it big. But they were successful. Two immigrants with little money or education found stable jobs, owned a home, retired with security and gave all four of their children a life far better than their own. My parents achieved what came to be known as the American Dream. But now, too many Americans are starting to doubt whether achieving that dream is still possible: Hard working families living paycheck to paycheck, one unexpected expense away from disaster… Young Americans, unable to start a career, a business or a family, because they owe thousands in student loans for degrees that did not lead to jobs… And small business owners, left to struggle under the weight of more taxes, more regulations and more government. Why is this happening in a country that for over two centuries has been defined by equality of opportunity? Because while our people and economy are pushing the boundaries of the 21st century, too many of our leaders and their ideas are stuck in the twentieth century. They are busy looking backward, so they do not see how jobs and prosperity today depend on our ability to compete in a global economy. So our leaders put us at a disadvantage by taxing, borrowing and regulating like it’s 1999. They look for solutions in yesterday, so they don’t see that good-paying modern jobs require different skills and more education than the past. They blindly support an outdated higher education system that is too expensive and inaccessible to those who need it most. And they have forgotten that when America fails to lead, global chaos inevitably follows, so they appease our enemies, betray our allies and weaken our military. At the turn of the 19th century, a generation of Americans harnessed the power of the Industrial Age and transformed this country into the leading economy in the world. And the 20th century became the American Century. Now, the time has come for our generation to lead the way toward a new American Century. If we reform our tax code, reduce regulations, control spending, modernize our immigration laws and repeal and replace ObamaCare, the American people will create millions of better-paying modern jobs. If we create a 21st century system of higher education that provides working Americans the chance to acquire the skills they need, that no longer graduates students with mountains of debt and degrees that do not lead to jobs, and that graduates more students from high school ready to work, then our people will be prepared to seize their opportunities in the new economy. If we remember that family – not government – is the most important institution in society, that all life deserves protection, and that all parents deserve to choose the education that’s right for their children, then we will have a strong people and a strong nation. And if America accepts the mantle of global leadership, by abandoning this administration’s dangerous concessions to Iran, and its hostility to Israel; by reversing the hollowing out of our military; by giving our men and women in uniform the resources, care and gratitude they deserve; by no longer being passive in the face of Chinese and Russian aggression; and by ending the near total disregard for the erosion of democracy and human rights around the world; then our nation will be safer, the world more stable, and our people more prosperous. This election is not just about what laws we will pass. It is a generational choice about what kind of country we will be. Just yesterday, a leader from yesterday began a campaign for President by promising to take us back to yesterday. But yesterday is over, and we are never going back. We Americans are proud of our history, but our country has always been about the future. Before us now is the opportunity to author the greatest chapter yet in the amazing story of America. We can’t do that by going back to the leaders and ideas of the past. We must change the decisions we are making by changing the people who are making them. That is why today, grounded by the lessons of our history, and inspired by the promise of our future, I announce my candidacy for President of the United States of America. My candidacy might seem improbable to some watching from abroad. In many countries, the highest office in the land is reserved for the rich and powerful. But I live in an exceptional country where even the son of a bartender and a maid can have the same dreams and the same future as those who come from power and privilege. I recognize the challenges of this campaign, and the demands of the office I seek. But in this endeavor as in all things, I find comfort in the ancient command to, “Be strong and courageous! Do not tremble or be dismayed, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go.” I have heard some suggest that I should step aside and wait my turn. But I cannot. Because I believe our very identity as an exceptional nation is at stake, and I can make a difference as President. I am humbled by the realization that America doesn’t owe me anything; but I have a debt to America I must try to repay. This isn’t just the country where I was born; America is the place that changed my family’s history. I regret my father did not live to see this day in person. He used to tell me all the time: En este pais, ustedes van a poder lograr todas las cosas que nosotros no pudimos. “In this country, you will achieve all the things we never could.” On days when I am tired or discouraged, I remember the sound of his keys jingling at the front door of our home, often well past midnight, as he returned from another long day at work. When I was younger, I didn’t fully appreciate all he did for us, but now as my own children grow older, I fully understand. My father was grateful for the work he had, but that was not the life he wanted for his children. He wanted all the dreams he once had for himself to come true for us. He wanted all the doors that closed for him to be open for me. My father stood behind a small portable bar in the back of a room for all those years, so that tonight I could stand behind this podium in the front of this room. That journey, from behind that bar to behind this podium, is the essence of the American Dream. Whether or not we remain a special country will depend on whether that journey is still possible for those trying to make it now: The single mother who works long hours for little pay so her children don’t have to struggle the way she has… The student who takes two buses before dawn to attend a better school halfway across town… The workers in our hotel kitchens, the landscaping crews in our neighborhoods, the late-night janitorial staff that clean our offices … and the bartenders who tonight are standing in the back of a room somewhere… If their American Dreams become impossible, we will have become just another country. But if they succeed, the 21st Century will be another American Century. This will be the message of my campaign and the purpose of my presidency. To succeed on this journey, I will need your prayers, your support, and ultimately, your vote. Tonight I am asking you to take that first step with me, by joining us at marcorubio.com. My wife Jeanette and my four children are here tonight. The next 19 months will take me far from home. I will miss watching Amanda run track, Daniella play volleyball, Anthony play football and Dominick play soccer. But I have chosen this course because this election is about them. Theirs is the most important generation in American history. If we can capture the promise of this new century they will be the freest and most prosperous Americans ever. But if we fail, they will be the first generation of Americans to inherit a country worse off than the one left for their parents. The final verdict on our generation will be written by Americans not yet born. Let us make sure they record that we made the right choice. That in the early years of this century, faced with a rapidly changing and uncertain world, our generation rose to face the great challenges of our time. And because we did, there was still one place in the world where who you come from does not determine how far you can go. Because we did, the American miracle lived on. And because we did, our children and theirs lived in a new American Century. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.



With majorities in both chambers of Congress, it is time for Republicans to begin rolling back six years of failed Obama administration policies. Our highest priority during the ongoing budget debate should be undoing the damage caused by defense sequestration and the hundreds of billions of dollars of defense cuts made by the Obama administration. Regrettably, military strength is seen in many quarters as the cause of military adventurism. A strong, robust defense is seen not to deter aggression, but to provoke it. For years, we have systematically underfunded our military, marrying a philosophy of retreat with a misplaced understanding of our larger budgetary burdens and the real drivers of the debt: our entitlement programs. As expected, almost four years after the passage of the Budget Control Act, virtually nothing has been done to address the unsustainable growth of our entitlement programs, while essential defense programs have been sacrificed. Political leaders in Washington need to be reminded that our defense is the single most important responsibility of the federal government. Instead of starting the process by setting arbitrary defense spending levels and then forcing our military to cut vital programs in order to meet these levels, the budgeting process should start by taking into account all the threats against us, listing the programs and capabilities we'll need to protect our people and interests around the world, and then funding those efforts. Even though we've been able to keep the homeland safe for more than a decade, the threats to Americans at home and abroad are growing. From the rise of the Islamic State and the spread of Islamic terrorism, to Russia's aggression in Europe, to Chinese expansionism in the South China Sea, the threats to American security are growing. Yet, even as the world outside our borders is filled with more doubt and uncertainty, the United States has been steadily reducing our spending on defense. Even before sequestration, President Obama made [1]defense cuts of $487 billion over 10 years and redirected the savings to already bloated domestic programs. This was followed by tens of billions more in [2]defense cuts each year because of sequestration, which, when combined with Obama's prior cuts, will total $1 trillion over the coming decade. All of these reductions were enacted despite the warnings of four secretaries of defense and our entire military leadership. The results of these cuts have been disastrous for our military and for our ability to project power and deter our enemies. The slight increase in President Obama's proposed 2016 budget won't significantly change that. At the end of this process, our military will be[3] significantly smaller, dramatically less capable and dangerously unready to deploy if these budget cuts remain in place. The Army is on the path to be reduced to pre-World War II levels. The Navy is at pre-WWI levels. And our Air Force has the smallest and oldest combat force in its history. Our force reductions have been felt throughout the world -- by our friends and our enemies. They have presented not just a crisis of readiness for America, but also a perilous strategic weakness. Our adversaries have been emboldened by what they perceive as our diminished military presence. History has shown that every time we have unreasonably cut resources from our military in anticipation of a peace dividend, it has only cost us more to make up for the deficit we create in military readiness and capability, and the expected era of perpetual peace fails to materialize. We think we are saving money, but in the long run, we end up paying more and creating more risk and uncertainty. We can afford the military we need, but we must make it a priority. For this reason, we introduced an amendment to the Senate budget resolution this week to address the dangerous funding gap our military currently faces. We believe we must increase the resources available to our military to the levels proposed by (former) Defense Secretary Robert Gates in his FY12 budget, the last defense budget based solely on an assessment of the threats we face and the requisite military needs to deal with those threats. It is the budget that the bipartisan, congressionally-mandated National Defense Panel stated was "the [4]minimum required to reverse course and set the military on a more stable footing." Now that Republicans control both house of Congress, it is time to support a defense budget that actually reflects the world in which we live, not the world the way we wish it was. Until now, our approach as a country and a party since the Budget Control Act has not been one of American strength. Continuing on the current path will only invite war and conflict through weakness. We need to heed the bipartisan warnings of our nation's military leaders and get back on track toward a defense budget that reflects the realities of the challenges we face and is worthy of our brave men and women in uniform. In the end, it is they who will suffer the most if sequestration is not reversed and our readiness and equipment continues to degrade. As members of Congress, we have a sacred obligation to ensure that they have the best possible training and equipment so they can successfully complete their missions. Despite the fiscal constraints imposed on our military, they are doing their part and are holding up their end of the bargain. It's time that we hold up ours.
Thank you. It is an honor to be back at the Council on Foreign Relations, and I—appreciate very much the opportunity to address you here today. So, I wanted to begin my remarks here today by quoting from the closing of another set of remarks—from a speech that I believe echoes across history due to its proximity to tragedy, but that stands more importantly, more powerfully, as a testament to the bi-partisan tradition of strong American leadership. On the morning of November 22nd, on 1963, President John F. Kennedy spoke at a Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce event, and he spoke on the need for a strong and active America. Here's what he said, he ended with this, quote, "I am confident, as I look to the future, that our chances for security, our chances for peace, are better than they have been in the past, and the reason is because we are stronger, and with that strength is a determination to not only maintain the peace, but also, the vital peace of the United States. To that great cause, Texas and the United States are committed." End Quote. Those were the final words of the final speech that President Kennedy ever delivered, but the commitment to American strength he spoke lived on long after he—across decades, across parties. Eventually bringing about the conclusion of the Cold War, and the emergence of America as the world's sole super power. President Kennedy, like most presidents before, and since, understood what I believe our current President does not. That American strength as a means of preventing war, not promoting it, and that weakness on the other hand, is the friend of danger, and the enemy of peace. Since the end of the Cold War, the threats facing America have changed, but the need for American strength has not. It's only grown more pressing as the world's grown more interconnected. In recent decades, technology has demolished the barriers to travel and to trade—transforming our national economy into a global one. The prosperity of our people now depends on their ability to interact freely, and safely, on the international market place. Turmoil across the world can impact American families almost as much as turmoil across town. It can cause the cost of living to rise, or entire industries to shed jobs, and crumble, and so today, as never before, foreign policy is domestic policy. Sadly, I believe President Obama often disagrees with that simple truth. He entered office believing America was too hard on our adversaries, too engaged in too many places, but if we only took a step back and did more nation building at home—he enacted hundreds of billions of dollars in defense cuts that left our Army on track to be at pre-World War Two levels, our Navy at pre-World War One levels, and our Air Force with the smallest and oldest combat force in it's history. He demonstrated a disregard for our moral purpose that at times flirted with disdain. He criticized America for having arrogance and the audacity to dictate our terms to other nations. From his reset with Russia, to his open hand to Iran, to his unreciprocated opening to Cuba. He has embraced regimes that systematically oppose every principle our nation has long championed. The deterioration of our physical and ideological strength has led to a world far more dangerous than when President Obama entered office. In just the last two years, we've seen an emboldened Russia invade and annex—invade Ukraine and annex Crimea. We've seen ISIS sweep across multiple states, commit brutal atrocities, and attempt to establish a caliphate. We've seen one of the most devastating humanitarian catastrophes in decades as hundreds of thousands of Syrians have been slaughtered at the whim of a tyrant. We've seen the largest migration of refugees since World War II, bringing instability to an entire region and putting whole generations at risk of radicalization. We've seen China rapidly expand its military capabilities and take aggressive action in the South and East China Seas. And we've seen North Korea expand its nuclear arsenal and continue its brutal human rights violations. We've seen cyber attacks against our allies and against our people. We've seen peaceful protesters met with violence from their government. And most threatening of all, we have seen Iran expand its influence throughout the Middle East and threaten to annihilate Israel as it moves closer to a nuclear weapons capability. The president's proposed deal with Iran will likely lead to a cascade of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East. And it could force Israel to take bold action to defend itself, making war with Iran even more likely. President Obama's desperation to sign a deal, any deal, has caused him to elevate politics over policy, legacy over leadership, and adversaries over allies. The likely impact of this deal, along with the broader unraveling of global order, underscore a truth we must never again forget. America plays a part on the world stage for which there is no understudy. When we fail to lead with strength and principle, there is no other country, friend or foe, who is willing or able to take our place. And the result is chaos. I believe the onus of maintaining American strength lies where the buck stops. It is up to our next president to right the wrongs done by our current one. It is up to our next president to properly fund and modernize our military. It is up to our next president to restore our people's faith in the promise and the power of the American ideal. We simply cannot afford to elect as our next president one of the leading agents of this administration's foreign policy, a leader from yesterday whose tenure as secretary of state was ineffective at best, and dangerously negligent at worst. The stakes of tomorrow are too high to look to the failed leadership of yesterday. While America did not intend to become the world's indispensable power, that is exactly what our economic and political freedoms have made us. The free nations of the world still look to America to champion our shared ideals. Vulnerable nations still depend on us to deter aggression from their larger neighbors. And oppressed people still turn their eyes towards our shores wondering if we hear their cries, wondering if we notice their afflictions. We cannot bring peace and stability on our own. But the world cannot do it without us. And the question before us is not should we lead, but rather, how should we lead in this new century. What principles should govern the exercise of our power in this new era? The 21st century requires a president who will answer that question with clarity and consistency, one who will set forth a doctrine for the exercise of American influence in the world, and who will adhere to that doctrine with the principled devotion that has marked the bipartisan tradition of presidential leadership from Truman to Kennedy to Reagan. And today, I intend to offer such a doctrine and in the coming years, I intend to be such a president. My foreign policy consists of three pillars. The first is American strength. This is an idea that stems from a simple truth that the world is at its safest when America is at its strongest. When America has the mightiest Army and Navy and Air Force and Marine Corps and Coast Guard and intelligence community in the world, the result is more peace, not more conflict. To ensure our strength never falters, we must always plan ahead. It takes forethought to design and many years to build the capabilities we may need at a moment's notice. So to restore American strength, my first priorities will be to adequately fund our military. This would be a priority even in times of peace and stability, though the world is neither peaceful nor stable. To begin, we need to undo the damage caused by the sequester, which is why I've endorsed the National Defense Panel's recommendation that we return as soon as possible to Secretary Gates's fiscal year 2012 budget baseline. Adequately funding the military will allow us not only to grow our forces, but also to modernize them, which in turn will allow us to remain on the cutting edge in every arena before us—land, sea and air—but also cyberspace and outer space, the battlefields of the 21st century. By modernizing and innovating, we can ensure that we never send our troops into a fair fight, but rather always equip them with the upper hand. And when they come home, we should be as firmly committed to their well being as they have been to ours. A strong military also means a strong intelligence community, equipped with all the tools it needs to defend the homeland from extremism both home-grown and foreign-trained. And key to this will be extending section 215 of the Patriot Act. We cannot let politics cloud the importance of this issue. We must never find ourselves looking back Well, first there are timeless truths, right? The sun still rises in the east and American power still matters in the world. The challenges are different. So for example today we face multiple challenges. It's not just a confrontation with another powerful nation-state, the Soviet Union, which we faced throughout—after the end of the Second World War and through the end of the Cold War. We face traditional nations, China, with its own ambitions, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region. And Russia, our Putin wants to be the president of a great country, but he can't achieve it economically so he tries to achieve it militarily. But then we also face rogue states. North Korea basically a territory governed by criminal syndicate. Iran, a nation governed by a radical Shia cleric. And then non-state actors with increasing capacity, both ISIS, Al-Qaeda, et cetera. So I mean the challenges—the need for American leadership is still true. The challenges are different and require a different approach. I don't think that's necessarily the role that I would advocate. The title is not world's policeman. But I do think that the world—these problems require a global response. But a global response requires someone to convene the world to take action. And only America's capable of doing it. In the absence of American leadership, our NATO and European allies cannot come up with a strategy to confront the aggression from Russia. Nor can our allies in the Middle East, or for that matter, our allies in the Asia-Pacific region. American leadership is critical in creating the alliances necessary to confront these challenges. Well, a couple points. First, I certainly think that it's good that we've got leaders of the GCC meeting at Camp David with the president. I think it's an action that should've happened a while ago. And I regret that the king of Saudi Arabia is not among them because I think that's an important part of the coalition. I would've expanded beyond the GCC countries... Well, I would expand it beyond just those countries in the GCC. I would also expand it to include Egypt and Jordan, predominantly Sunni governments who have a shared interest because they're concerned about tow primary challenges. One is the rise of extremism, primarily Sunni extremism. And these Sunni countries want to confront and defeat Sunni extremism. And the other is the rise of Iran's ambitions to dominate the region. And so they have a—that's a perfect example of a group of nations that could come together to confront both of these challenges. But it will require America to bring them together. And so that meeting and that effort I hope should've happened a while back. But I suspect, while I'm not privy to the notes of those meetings, that much of those meetings will be dedicated to conversations about bringing these countries at some point of ease with regards to this negotiation the president's undertaking with Iran. First of all, I believe we could've prevented much of what's happened with ISIS had we become engaged in the Syrian conflict earlier. At the initial stages of that conflict the vast majority of people opposing Assad were Syrians who were rebelling against the leadership of that country. And I advocated at the time, and I did so forcefully, that we should identify people we could work with on the ground in Syria and empower them. And I argued that in the absence of doing so we would leave a vacuum, and that vacuum would be filled by foreign fighters, primarily radicals. And that's how it exactly played out. And that's what gave the—that's the conditions that allowed both ISIS and al-Nusra, a group that's on the rebound within Syria, to come back. Once ISIS began to emerge I did not consider them a JV team. In fact, I repeatedly warned that they were much, much more of a potent threat than the president was giving them credit for. And I argued for an earlier engagement, both targeting their hubs of—their nodes that they use for logistical operations, but also the transit points that they needed in order to project power moving forward. I still think that it's good we're conducting airstrikes. The truth is we probably need more. But I really think it's critical that a Sunni force confront them on the ground. And part of that could be Iraqi Sunnis. And I see today that they're starting to train some. But I also think it's important to go to our allies in the region, the Jordanians, the Egyptians, the GCC countries that are willing to also put forces on the ground to help stabilize that country. And... (CROSSTALK) They've expressed that. But they need our help to do it. I mean... (CROSSTALK) ... technical support. Well, because there's two areas of concern there. Number one is I think they're willing to be more helpful than they have been, particularly in confronting them on the ground with the combined force. The problem is they need American logistical support, air support and some special operations embeds to help that be successful. They're not going to do it on their own... Well, the Saudis are conducting that operation. And it's telling that they did it without really notifying the United States well in advance of what they were about to do. Well, we've given them some increasing advice. It still has not been to the level it should've been. And again, ultimately that's a much more complex situation because it does involve Iran. But it also involves Al-Qaeda nodes and others that are now in the country. But the answer is, in terms of confronting the threat of the spread of regional influence by Iran, Yemen has become just the latest flashpoint, again, a place where a joint pan Arab Sunni force that would stand up to both extremism and Iran's ambitions could confront these challenges with U.S. logistical and air support. Yes. I think ultimately you could embed Special Operations Forces to help them improve their capabilities. But ultimately these countries have expressed a willingness. They understand it is their fight. I mean they're not just fighting for territory. They're fighting for the very identity of what it means to be a Sunni Muslim. And they're confronted by a very serious challenge. And Sisi I think outlined this very effectively in an interview he did a couple of months ago in the Wall Street Journal where he said it is important we understand the threat they pose to our faith, to the Muslim faith. And that they need to be confronted and defeated because this extremism doesn't just threaten the world, it threatens Islam. A couple points. The first is I think early on in his tenure especially... No, I think he viewed even before that he viewed American engagement abroad as a cause of friction. In essence, the notion that we had problems around the world because there was a grievance against the United States because of something we had done. And in fact, much of these conflicts are ideologically based. They're not grievance based. Iran' s problem with America is not a grievance, certainly not just a grievance. It goes deeper than that. It's ideological. It's their belief that they want to be the dominant power in the region and they want to export their revolution to other territories. And so the president when—during the Green Revolution in 2009, refused to take a side early on, said he wouldn't interfere in the sovereignty of that country. Meanwhile, Iranians were in the streets protesting... I think he should've expressed—and that's why I talk about my third point. That it's important that our foreign policy be deeply tied to our values. The president should've firmly stood on the side of those Iranians that desire true democracy in their country and real political change. He did not do that in the early stages of that conflict. Beyond that I think I had serious problems with a reset with Russia, a fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of Vladimir Putin who even when he was not in power pulled a lot of the strings about where that country was headed. Absolutely. Yes, absolutely... And I'll tell you why. Absolutely. First of all, Iran is on the ground in Iraq... ... heavily. In addition... Not just advisers. There're Iranian fighters on the ground embedded side-by-side with these Shia militias. The Shia militias are largely agents of the Iranian government. Iran does not want a U.S. presence in Iraq of any kind. They've tolerated airstrikes primarily because they can't do anything to stop them. And to the extent that they're killing ISIS people far from Iraqi territory they have tolerated to a certain point. But they are not happy with U.S. engagement. They have said so publicly, and in fact have trafficked in outrageous rumors which I honestly believe some of them believe that the U.S. is actually helping ISIS and that we actually helped invent ISIS. They don't want us there and most certainly don't want any American presence there. I believe these Shia militias on the ground pose an extraordinary threat to Americans in the diplomatic facilities and in Iraq right now. They're embedded side-by-side with regular Iraqi forces. They have full access to all of the Iraqi government buildings, et cetera. And I believe that if the United States had taken a more aggressive position that you—there would've been... Against ISIS... Well, no. Against ISIS and its stronger presence in Iraq that it would've destabilized the talks with Iran, sort of certainly impacted by them, and may have triggered them to respond in kind with attacks from their agents, these Shia militias. Well, my primary objection to it is that it allows Iran to obtain the capability to enrich uranium or reprocessed plutonium. There are multiple other countries in the world that have nuclear energy. Iran does not need nuclear energy. They're an oil rich country. But assuming they want it, there is a way to do it, the way dozens—hundred—you know many other countries around the world do by importing the material. The fact that they can retain a country that has had—that sponsors terrorism all over the world, a country that is developing long-range rockets, a country that we know has been working on acquiring a nuclear weapon capability despite their lies, and has always had a secret component to their plan, is now going to retain the infrastructure needed to enrich uranium, reprocess plutonium. That is an unacceptable risk... But that... Well... Sure. But here's the problem with that. Number one, they retain all the infrastructure they will need to in the future break all those caps. Second, enforcing such a deal requires for there to be open, full inspections. Iran is saying they will not allow access to military facilities. That's problematic because... ... it's in the military... (CROSSTLAK) ... find the bomb. Well... We should never have treated, in my opinion, from the position that Iran does not have the right to enrich uranium or reprocess plutonium. We should insisted that they stop work on long-range missile technology that has no other purpose but placing a warhead to launch abroad. We should have insisted that they be open about all their secret programs in the past, so we had a baseline to base future monitoring activity. And what Iran is gambling on here is pretty simple. They know that once the international sanctions are lifted, there is no way they will ever be reimposed. They believe that they can evade sanctions inspections, especially one the world's attention is diverted to another topic. In some ways, they have learned from the North Korean experience on how to follow this. And I'm convinced that at some point, maybe not next year, but at that some point, they will pursue a nuclear weapon capability. And in the interim, they will exploit any ambiguous language. They will—any ambiguities or loopholes in this deal to advance their nuclear ambition. Well, not only would I not have been in favor of it. President Bush would not have been in favor of it. And he's said so. Well, President Bush has said that he regrets that the intelligence was faulty. I don't think the Congress would have voted in favor of authorization if they didn't know that. But let's also be fair about the context. Yes, there was intelligence that was faulty, but there was also a history with Iraq of evasion. It was a country that had had mobile units in the past that it used for both C.W., you know, chemical weapons and biological capability. It is a country that had actively not so long in the—in the past, at the moment that that decision was made, had invaded a neighboring country in Kuwait. It was a country that had an open dispute going on with international bodies about the inspections and allowing international inspectors to come in an view things. Ultimately, though, I do not believe that if the intelligence—if the intelligence had said Iraq—Iraq as not having a weapon of mass destruction capability, I don't believe President Bush would have authorized to move forward. Well, I don't—I view them as the same threat he does. The difference is, he lives a lot closer to them than I do. And, therefore, I certainly—and he's the prime minister and the leader of a country who every Friday afternoon Iran says they want to destroy in their prayers, and a country that Iran—who's Iran's leader has posted on a Twitter page a 12-point plan to eliminate from the face of the Earth. So, obviously, the threat he faces is more immediate and real. That being said, my interest in Israel is not about people that will support me politically. It's a longstanding belief. And it's—and it's based on two principles. The first is a moral one. Israel was created as a homeland for the Jewish people in the aftermath of the Holocaust, so never again would there not be somewhere on Earth where the Jewish people could seek refuge or live in peace, especially facing persecution. And the other is this, it is the only free-enterprise, democratic, pro-American country in the Middle East. If we had more free-enterprise, pro-American democracies in the Middle East, my speech would be a lot shorter. I don't think the conditions exist for that today. I mean, that's the ideal outcome... ... but the conditions for a two-state solution at this moment do not exist. Well, as I said, that's the ideal outcome. But the conditions do not exist. (CROSSTALK) As conditions currently exist, no. And there's a number of reasons why. Number one, there's no unity in the Palestinian government or there's no responsible leadership. They teach their children that it's a glorious thing to kill Jews. They mismanage the current system of government they have in place today. And they've rejected not one, but two very generous Israeli offers for peace. The conditions simply don't exist. I think the most we can hope for in the short term... Well, in the short term, it's to continue to hope that the Palestinian Authority and its law enforcement agencies will be able to provide a level of stability in that territory so that they will be allowed to grow their economy and their prosperity and ultimately that the conditions will rise up, with new leadership, that will allow something like that to happen. That's gonna be a pretty long confessional when Raoul Castro (inaudible). (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) Well, look, the pope is a—the pope is a shepherd of a faith. And his desire is peace and prosperity. He wants everyone to be better off. His job is, he's not a political figure, although he's the head of state of a nation, and a sovereign state in the Vatican City. His desire is for—is to shepherd the faith and the flock. And that's what he's trying to do. And he has—there are many Roman Catholics on the island of Cuba, and he desires a better future. And anything he can do to open up more opportunities for them, he's going to pursue. My interest as an elected official is the national security of the United States. And embedded in that is the belief that it is not good for our country nor the people of Cuba to have an anti-American dictatorship 90 miles from our shores. A nation that harbors terrorists. A nation that harbors fugitives from American justice. A nation that harbors advanced intelligence gathering facilities for China and Russia. Well, I would reimpose sanctions that could only be lifted through reciprocal steps on behalf of the Cubans. In essence, if they want more telecommunications opening, then the Cuban government will have to allow freedom of the press. If they want more engagement with American business and travel, then they will have to allow more democratic opening for alternative groups in society. The conditions are actually in law right now. The embargo, which is separate from what the president has done, could be lifted tomorrow... (CROSSTALK) I think that's not... Because that's not true. What he's saying isn't accurate. Number one, the sanctions that he's talking about, if he's talking about the embargo, the purpose of the embargo was not to topple Fidel Castro. That was the purpose of the Bay of Pigs. That didn't work. But the—but the purpose of the embargo was to prevent the trafficking of stolen goods. And, let me be clear about something, if you travel to Cuba, you stay at a hotel, you are staying in a stolen property. When you go to Cuba and you buy any product that's produced in Cuba, you are usually gonna buy a product that is produced from a stolen property. Over $7 billion of property was stolen on the island of Cuba from Cubans, from Americans and from others, never compensated. So, imagine for a moment, if the government here in the United States went into your business, seized your property, forced you into exile in Canada... (CROSSTALK) ... and a year later Canadians are buying your products from your stolen property. In terms of? Well, it's not about restoring it to those who might have owned it... Well... Well, ultimately, it's not about restoring. They have—they never compensated for that property. And what the embargo said is, we're not gonna allow you to traffick in stolen goods with our economy. But let me take another point to you. There is no Japanese embargo on Cuba. There is no South Korean embargo on Cuba. Why isn't Cuba full of Samsung phones? Why isn't it full of Toyotas? Why does everybody drive a car from 1956? Because they're incompetent. Because their leadership is incompetent. Because they view themselves as the leaders of a plantation of 13 million people who they control. There is no Cuban economy; the entire economy is owned by a holding company named GAESA, which is run by Raul Castro's son in law. The hotels, the telecom companies, the rental the cars—everything is underneath the umbrella of that holding company. So we don't have an opening to Cuba; we have an opening to GAESA. Frank Birney's piece. He's right. That's exactly what's happened. For about a decade now, Americans have been getting bad news. You know, we had the American Century. Economically, we had a country like parents... I'm sorry. OK. So—so my parents came here, right? They had no skills, they were immigrants, and they were able to achieve a middle-class lifestyle. They owned a home, they raised their family, they were able to retire with dignity, they were able to leave their children better off than themselves, and they took enormous pride in all that America (ph) achieved around the world and—and here at home. And now in the early years of this new century, there's a feeling that none of that is true anymore. Globally, we no longer appear to be able to shape events like we once did, and domestically, you have millions of people that are working hard, maybe at the same job they had 25 years ago. But now they're no longer firmly in the middle class; they live paycheck to paycheck. And the question is, why is this happening? Why do the old ways of doing things no longer work, and why can't anybody tell us what the new way of doing things is? And the answer is because the world is undergoing an extraordinary economic and geopolitical transformation, and we need transformative leadership that helps us make that transition. Well, I think the 21st century has the potential to be better than the 20th century. But it will require us to have economic policies that make us globally competitive in a global economy. That's why tax reform and regulatory reform and energy policies and dealing with the debt are so important. The second point is technology has rapidly changed the nature of work. All the better-paying jobs of the 21st century require advanced education, but we have an outdated higher-education system. And again, it goes back to the things I talked about national security. In a globalized economy, foreign affairs has never mattered more from an economic perspective. That's a great question. First of all, they're not just building airstrips, they're building islands. I mean, they're building entire islands. Second, it's an illegitimate claim. It's part of their whole nine-dash line idea that they actually own that part of the world. Third, I think—I'm encouraged to read this morning that the U.S. Navy is thinking about challenging that, and we should never accept as a—as a truth that they control that. And I would, in fact, take all sorts of naval actions—not military action per se but military naval vessels transitting through that zone—to clear show that this is international waters open for transit for anyone who wants to go through there. Beyond that, I think it is critical for us to create a stronger alliance to truly fully pivot to the Asia-Pacific region. I think the trade agreement is a big part of that, but I think creating a military alliance, and increased military alliance that expands beyond just Japan, and South Korea, but includes increasing the capacity of the Philippines. Working even with Australia, and other nations to change the calculus that Japan would have to face if, in fact, they move forward in trying to act on their territorial claims that are illegitimate. And improve the capacity of these nations to defend themselves in completely change the cost-benefit analysis. One more point I would make is military spending is critical in this realm because China is investing billions of dollars in anti-access technology designed to make it too expensive for American power, particularly aircraft carriers to get close to the region. We also have to invest in the ability to defeat those anti-access capabilities that they've committed to. Well, let me first clarify the threat. The threat is not necessarily the Russia—or Russian people, it's Vladamir Putin who wants to be the leader of a great country, wants to put behind him what he feels was the humiliation of the 1990's, and reestablish Russia on par with the United States, and potentially even China, in his mind. And the result is because he can not achieve that economically, he has decided to that militarily by making it very clear that any nations in his periphery must never turn West-ward, must always turn in his direction. I actually think the sanctions that have been put in place—although I'd like to see them increase, particularly on the part of the United States—the sanctions are going to prove to be long term, devastating, for the—and already have been, for Moscow, and for the Russian economy, and for their ambitions. Beyond that, I think it is critical, whether it's the Baltic states, those who are members of NATO now, or even Ukraine, who is not... (AUDIO GAP) ...a member of NATO to have the necessary equipment or(ph) to handle crisis there, but these nations did not invest enough in ability to protect their own territory because everybody felt the Cold War is over—there is no threat from the East anymore, which we now see that that's not true. The point is, Putin believes that he can take aggressive action in Ukraine, and potentially, in other countries that have Russian speaking populations under the guise of moving in to protect them because he feels there's no consequence for doing so. He doesn't believe that these nations are going to be able to inflict enough pain on him militarily that he will pay a price domestically, and it's one of the reasons why they have been so paranoid about covering up the death of Russians which an opposition group yesterday revealed was over 200 hundred Russians who died in operations in Ukraine over the last year and a half... (CROSSTALK) We have to change... I'm open to Ukraine—joining NATO, but their capacity has to—if we won't even pry them off defensive, military capabilities, and—why would—to say they're going to join NATO is a longer reach in terms of this administration. We need to help them be able to defend themselves. Well the first thing I always explain to people is that we Americans are four to five percent of the worlds population. So, there's only so much prosperity we can do if all we do is sell things to each other. We need their to be millions of people around the globe who can afford to buy the things we make, products we innovate, the services we provide, and in order for that to happen you need global stability, which is why global leadership is important because without it there can not be global stability. Beyond that, we need to have access to these markets, and that's why I support these free trade agreements, and obviously they need to be finalized and we need to see the details of them, but we don't have trade agreements with the Pacific Rim, and that includes nations in Latin America, but also in Asia. We are basically walking away from access to billion—over a billion and a half people or more. And these are markets that are growing rapidly, they're consumer markets. We're not engaged in the fastest economic growing area in the world. All of our business are not going to prosper. Beyond that, I have an advantage. I come from Miami. In South Florida, many of our businesses are directly impacted by global affairs. For example, the Colombian free trade agreement has been a bonanza for many—everybody from the guy who drives trucks, to—and brings in the fresh flowers every day, to the actual people that import them. So I think it's important to explain to more Americans how critical it is that we have access to millions and millions of people around the world who can no afford to become their customers because today you can buy things on line, you don't even have to come here to transact business from someone. Well first off, I don't—that's an interesting question, obviously they—all these different threats have different characteristics. Communism was most certainly an economic and political view of the world, but it also tried to, basically, create nation states that would implement their policies. Radical Islam, while there is desire to create a caliphate on behalf of ISIS, is more defuse, and involves interconnected groups that may conspire together to take action, but don't necessarily have an easy understood future governance idea behind them. I mean, there's no economic model behind them, per say. In fact, the history of these radical jihadist groups is, once they take over your town, they do a terrible job of picking up the garbage and providing services for the people that they're governing, but they're very brutal in the way that they govern. The strategy is multifaceted. The first is these groups can only prosper if they have a safe haven. That is why Libya has become a premier operational space now, it provides a safe haven. And it's become safe haven not just in Libya, it's become a launch point for attacks on Sinai. Iraq became a safe haven, and Syria became a safe haven before that. 9/11 was possible because that was—al-Qaeda has a safe haven in Afghanistan. So, the first part of our strategy is we can not allow safe havens to emerge anywhere in the world. These ungoverned spaces where these groups can set-up camp, and establish themselves—and do not under estimate where ISIS is involved today. They are actively trying to absorb both al-Qaeda elements, and Taliban elements in Afghanistan, and even in to Pakistan. They're present almost throughout all of North Africa. They've extended their reach in to virtually all the countries of the Middle East to some capacity, and they do, as admitted by our own law enforcement agencies, have individuals that have never even traveled abroad, that are sympathetic to their cause, radicalized on-line, and actively plot to attack us here at home, and Europe, and elsewhere in the West. So denying them the safe haven is the key part of it, and taking the decisive action—acting in that regard. And that's why I thought being involved in Syria early, and not providing that safe haven was critical to preventing the growth of ISIS later on. Well, first of all, what are the success of her tenure as Secretary of State? The reset for Russia was a disaster because it misunderstood Putin's ambitions, and Putin's motivations. I don't know that she was openly supported of a Libyan engagement, perhaps that was reported in a book somewhere... Sir, I'm sorry. In Syria? I thought the Libyan engagement that I just mentioned a moment ago was not handled appropriately. The United States intervened for a very short period of time militarily, I believe it was 72 hours, and then the rest of the operation was left to the Brits and the French, loyal allies who worked hard, but do not have our capabilities. The result in Libya was a protracted conflict that killed people, destroyed infrastructure, left behind the conditions for the rise of multiple militias who refuse to lay down their arms. I actually traveled to Libya after the fall of Gaddafi, before he was captured, and came back and warned that if we did not get—we had allowed the conflict to go too long. If we didn't now get engaged on the front end to prevent that from happening, not only would Libya become a failed state, but it would also become a haven for extremism to take root as it happened now. I thought they were completely negligent on affairs in Latin America. Very little discussion during their tenure about how to improve our standing in the region, particularly with countries that are prospering and doing well, or moving in the direction that we think the world should move. Mexico, and Chile, and Peru, and Columbia. And we've also ignored the situation and countries that are moving in the opposite direction, whether it's Argentina, or Bolivia, or Ecuador, Venezuela. So, I just don't believe that there's many success that they can point to during her tenure. She was this chief architect and spokesperson of a foreign policy that will go down in history as disastrous. Sure, I believe that innocent people, peace loving people, are deserved to have their rights respected, and I think terrorists who plot to kill Americans and are actively engaged in plots to attack America deserve to be imprisoned, and taken off the battlefield. And that's the role that Guantanamo plays. It results from the only place we were able to gather intelligence. Today, we're not—we're not really gathering enough intelligence from potential advisory and attackers, and many of the people who've been released from Guantanamo have returned to the battlefield against America in multiple different parts of the world. So I don't necessarily view the same—I mean when you are an active combatant against the United States, in an effort to defeat us in a global war that seeks to to destroy as many Americans as possible, you need to be taken off the battle field and treated for what you are, an enemy combatant, and that's the role Guantanamo plays, and should continue to play....they're interrelated, so I can... (LAUGHTER) ...Well, just on the Syria front, briefly. One of the great sticking points between us and our allies in the region is they're interested in getting rid of Assad as well. They don't believe that if we don't deal with Assad, they don't think we have a plan, that it will continue. We'll be (inaudible) Nusra. We'll be next even after you defeat ISIS. And I hope someone will ask me the Iran question... (CROSSTALK) Well, the returning veterans, obviously they're out of uniform, will go into the V.A. system, which needs to be modernized. The V.A. system was designed 80—70 years ago, is no longer responsive to the needs of veterans today. I will tell you, a significant percentage of the workload in my Senate offices in Florida are V.A. claims. And I believe that veterans should be given a right to go outside the system if they cannot access in a timely way the care they need in the system. And as far as military spending is concerned, military spending is not the cause of our national debt. And every single time that we drastically reduce military spending, it has required us to come back later and make up for it in much more expensive ways. Now, should we improve out contracting processes? Absolutely. I wish our military contracting looked a little bit more like our space contracting, where there was more competition, more choices, and less change orders that add price to it. But I can tell you that the number one obligation of the federal government (inaudible) at a time when many potential adversaries are rapidly increasing their capabilities. Excuse me? Well, the money is there. I think the question you're asking is: What are we not going to pay in exchange for doing it? And that is a question about the debt. The driver of our long-term debt is not discretionary spending. The cause of our long-term debt are two very important programs—Social Security and Medicare—that as currently structured will not survive—will not survive. My generation will not know Medicare and Social Security if it in fact continues on the road it is on right now. And that's why I've called for reforms that leave people like my mother, who is on Social Security and Medicare, exactly the same way that they are; wouldn't change the system for them or people near retirement age. But my generation's going to have to accept a hard, but fundamental truth, and that is that our Medicare and Social Security will either look different or it will not exist by the time we reach retirement age. And that is the driver of our long-term debt. And the next president of the United States will not be able to fully serve two terms without confronting this reality, because those programs were designed when there were 60 workers for every retiree in the case of Social Security. There are now three workers for every retiree. It will go down to two workers for every retiree. And the math does not add up. And we need to reform those programs or they will not exist for me or for my children. And if we do it now, we can do it in a way that doesn't disrupt current beneficiaries at all. The longer we wait, the more disruptive, more painful, and more difficult it will be. That's a great watch. It that the I-watch (ph)? (LAUGHTER) (CROSSTALK) Thank you. Thanks for having me. Thank you very much.
 

Thank you very much. Well thank you. I’m honored to be with you at the Foreign Policy Initiative again. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak with you today.As we gather here today, two historic events are in progress. The first is the arrival of Secretary of State John Kerry in Cuba. The second is President Obama’s continued campaign to secure Congressional approval for hisdeal with Iran.While numerous crises around the globe will require the attention of America's next president, I would like to focus my remarks today on these two dangerous developments with Iran and Cuba, as I believe they represent the convergence of nearly every flawed strategic, moral, and economic notion that has driven President Obama’s foreign policy, and as such are emblematic of so many of the crises that he has worsened around the world during his time in office.These deals demonstrate with jarring clarity how this administration has failed to anticipate impending crises, ignored the realities of the globalized economy, and sought to make America liked rather than respected; the way it has placed politics before policy, adversaries before allies, and political legacy before leadership; the way it has confused weakness for restraint, concession for compromise, and –most simply of all –wrong for right. [APPLAUSE]To fully understand what we’re dealing with in regards to Iran and Cuba, we have to understand who we’re dealing with.In Iran, we face radical Shia clerics who wish to one day unite the world under Islam –their version of Islam –and who believe this will only happen after a cataclysmic showdown with the West; leaders who have been directly responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Americans in the last decade, who continue to lead chants of “Death to America” each week, and who refuse to stop financing terrorists that seek to kill Americans and wipe Israel off the map.In Cuba, we a face proudly anti-American leadership who continue to work with nations like Russia and China to spy on our people and government; who harbor fugitives from American justice; and who stand in opposition to nearly every value our nation holds dear by violating the basic human rights of their own people, by preventing democratic elections, and by depriving their nation’s economy of freedom and opportunity.The world has missed having an American President who speaks honestly about the world in whichwe live. In the eyes of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, his former secretary of state, the 3Cuban people are suffering because not enough American tourists visit the country, when the truth is the Cuban people are suffering because they live in a tyrannical dictatorship.[APPLAUSE]It is ironic that the same President who visited a US prison to talk about inequities in our criminal justice system is silent about the fact that minor offenses in Iran and Cuba are punishable indefinite detention, torture,and even death. And that these offenses often include nothing other than speaking out with the wrong political opinion.Instead of focusing his criticism on these illegitimate governments, the President has chosen to attack opponents of his policy here at home –going so far as to demonize critics of the Iran policy as "lobbyists with money" and "warmongers" and those who are opposed to his Cuba policy as “practitioners of ethnic politics.” This is shameful, derogatory rhetoric, and it should have no place in our democracy, especially from our President.[APPLAUSE]Centuries of global affairs tell us the best way to affect an outcome with volatile leaders is through strength and example, while the worst is through weakness and concession. Yet weakness and concession are the preferred tools of statecraft for this administration.President Obama has not only permitted Iran to retain its entire existing nuclear infrastructure, he has also endorsed the construction of a full-scale, industrial-size nuclearprogram within 15 years. He has conceded a vast enrichment capacity, preserved Iran’s fortified underground facility, and failed to secure “anytime, anywhere” inspections. He has virtually guaranteed Iran becomes a regional power with the ability to buildlong-range missiles capable of hitting the U.S. homeland. And on top of all this, he wants to hand Iran $100 billion in sanctions relief, which will be used in part to fund Hamas and Hezbollah, promote instability in Bahrain and Yemen, and to prop up Bashar al-Assad in Syria.He has given all of this away without any commitment that Iran will end its support for terrorism, accept Israel’s right to exist, or return a single American hostage. In short, the deal with Iran isn’t a deal at all. It is a stringof concessions to a sworn adversary of the United States.The negotiations with Cuba have proven equally one-sided.President Obama has rewarded the Castro regime for its repressive tactics and persistent, patient opposition to American interests. He has unilaterally given up on a half-century worth of policy toward the Castro regime that was agreed upon by presidents of both parties. He has ensured the regime will receive international legitimacy and a substantial economic boost to benefit its repression of the Cuban people, which has only increased –increased –since the new policy was announced.And as a symbol of just how backward this policy shift has turned out to be, not a single Cuban dissident has been invited to today’s official flag-raising ceremony at the US Embassy in Havana. Cuba’s dissidents have fought for decades for the very Democratic principles President Obama claims to be advancing through these concessions. Their exclusion from this event has ensured that it will be little more than a propaganda rally for the Castro regime.
