No realistic look at the world today will leave us feeling good about America's security. Terrorism is increasingly striking here at home. Regional powers are challenging the postwar security order. Nuclear weapons are proliferating. Cyberspace has become a battlefield. The U.S. has neglected both our military and our alliances and has apparently decided, instead, to try to lead from behind. America urgently needs vision, stronger policies and the means to implement them to restore our nation's international standing and leadership. The economy is the forgotten starting point for this discussion. In my 18 years as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I never met a president who understood the link between a strong economy and strong national security better than Ronald Reagan. He was relentless in pursuing economic growth because he knew it would allow us to rebuild our military and win the Cold War. Putting Reagan's wisdom to work today means taking on America's $18 trillion debt and $463 billion deficit -- the two greatest barriers to the economic growth it takes to keep us safe. That is why I support a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget. When Washington takes up less space in the economy, job creators have more room to thrive. As chairman of the House Budget Committee, I led the last successful effort to balance the federal budget, and as governor of Ohio, I closed an $8 billion budget shortfall without increasing taxes. The next president must know how to balance budgets and keep them balanced, because it is the first thing we must do to keep America safe. Our second priority must be renewing our Navy. Other services have legitimate needs too, but reinvigorating the Navy's ability to project power globally is critical to defending and advancing American interests, including ensuring the free flow of global commerce. Those who mistakenly think they can deny access to a corner of the world -- particularly in the Western Pacific and Persian Gulf -- need another visit from a carrier battle group to remind them that the global commons are, in fact, just that: the world's shared real estate. The other global commons in need of defense are cyberspace. We need new tools and strategies to make cyberspace safe for commerce and the peaceful exchange of news and information. Even with a stronger military, there is always greater safety in numbers. America's relationships with our allies are the backbone of our security because they are political and military force-multipliers. They have been neglected, and America and the world have become less safe as a result. Renewing our alliances takes respectful engagement, integrating allied needs as we strengthen our military -- ensuring that all parties pull their own weight -- and candor and discretion. Such alliance cohesion is key: Airing our differences in public -- as the Obama administration has done recently in its well-publicized tensions with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu -- only emboldens our enemies. Any action that America takes, or suggests, is more effective if it is reinforced by a stronger military and renewed alliances. With these shored-up alliances, a stronger presence in the Western Pacific, a more aggressive allied stance toward Russia, and decisive allied action to eradicate ISIS would all produce better outcomes, as well as give potential future disruptive actors more pause for thought. Making the policy changes that secure our country cannot and should not be done by one party alone. If we want a safer country, we first need the courage to cooperate in our own Capitol and with those who share our fundamental values. In my nearly two decades on the House Armed Services Committee, my Democratic and Republican colleagues repeatedly worked together on tough issues like reforming military procurement and streamlining the defense bureaucracy so our troops would have the resources to defend our country. We can and must find a way to come together again so America can be safe. The changes I am proposing are admittedly big -- unleashing the economy, strengthening our military and alliances, engaging our adversaries and, if all else fails, being more willing to project force decisively -- but I am confident we can do it, because America's national security transcends partisanship. America's power has always been its people, so we should use that power to keep our people safe. Our willingness to strive together, sacrifice together, and serve one another are our essential strengths. To keep us safe and restore American standing and leadership, we must come together again and forge a new consensus around a realistic and sustainable vision for our future national security and the tools with which to implement it.


Wow. Huh? Wow. Well, listen, standing here with me, of course, are the people who I’ve dedicated my life to: My sweet daughters, Emma and Reese Kasich. You know, I remember when they were born — remember that, sweetie? I kept saying to the doctor, “How’s it going,” you know, and he’s trying to deliver two, and finally, he looks at me square in the eye, and he said, “Can you shut up? I’m a little busy right now.” And they came out, and I could hold them in the palm of my hand. It was so sweet. And so I, along with Karen, have dedicated our lives to giving them a better life than we were able to ever get from our parents. And you know what? They’re doing fantastic. Emma and Reese Kasich. And my wife, pray for her. She’s married to me, OK?  From the very tips of my toes to the top of my head, I just love my wife so much. Such a greater partner… … and such a great lady. So I want to tell you that it’s this whole business of the American Dream, isn’t it, that we can all work to make sure that next generation is going to be in a position of greater strength than what we received. And I get my inspiration from the people who came before me. And I want to tell you about a few of the ones that inspire me. I’d like to start with my uncle Steve. Uncle Steve was a tough guy — you know, the son of a coal miner. Rough and gruff and tell it like it is. And he found himself at Iwo Jima, and he looked around during that battle and he saw a lot of people dying. Uncle Steve was not a church-going man, but in the middle of all the violence and the blood and the death, he said to God, if you will take me off this island, I will go to church every day for the rest of my life. And he did. And he did. And Uncle Steve… When Uncle Steve came home from the war, the brothers all slept in the same room; they didn’t have a lot. And Uncle George told me that he would have nightmares and he would speak in Japanese. And he told his brothers never wake me, never wake me from that nightmare because I don’t what will happen. Let me sleep and wake up on my own. And Uncle George — he’s here today, he’s right over here. He’s 89 years old. I so love my Uncle George. He’s the patriarch of our family. Well, Uncle George was in the infantry, and he was scheduled to take a boat from England to Belgium. But the division he was in couldn’t all fit in the boat, so they asked Uncle George to wait until the next day. Well that boat left England on its way to Belgium, and a submarine launched a torpedo and sunk that boat and everyone on it perished. The next day, Uncle George took another boat and he landed in France. And he fought with great honor and he returned home and became a guidance counselor and guided young people for the next 38 years of his life. What a man. You know, when my father-in-law — we call him Popsy, grandfather — joined the Marines at the age of 17; wanted to serve his country. But I guess most important, my mom and dad. You know, Mom was — well, she was a visionary. Didn’t get the education; you know, her mother could barely speak English, but boy, was she smart. And if you think I have opinions, you never met my mom. And my father was the mailman. They called him John the Mailman. And when we laid my mother and father to rest, there were countless numbers of people who came and said John the Mailman, he watched out for all of us. And they gave up so much, didn’t take — I wished they’d have spent more on themselves, but they just — no matter what you told them, they weren’t doing to do it because it was all about the next generation. And they are the ones that have inspired me. And all of you that are here today, you’re the same way, aren’t you? You’ve got those people who did so much for you who are your heroes. And they don’t have to be famous, they’re just people you love and that you admire. That American Dream that is pivotal for the future for our country, but I have to tell you there are a lot of people in America today who are not sure that that American Dream is possible, that that American Dream is alive. And I can understand their concerns. You know, when I was a kid, you went out and you got a job and you worked at that job your entire lifetime. You got your health care, you got your retirement and everything was good. Today, you could be a 51-year-old man and one day after serving and doing everything the right way, somebody walks into your office and says, I’m sorry, but we don’t need you anymore. Can you imagine that conversation? Could you imagine that dad when he is driving home or that mom when she is driving home? They lose confidence. They wonder what their future is. Can they get another job? Can they support their family? Will anybody be there to help them? Or how about moms and dads today? They send their kids to college, many of these young people ringing up massive amounts of debt trying to get an education and they are living in the attic and Mom and Dad are wondering, will they get a job? Will they pay their bills? What kind of a future are they going to have? Or, at the same time, we can also think about what all of us fear greatly and that is the problems of bad health. Can I afford those expensive drugs that I need to survive? What is it going to cost me to get treatment, just not for myself but for one of the loved ones in my family? Will I be bankrupted and lose everything I have, everything I’ve worked for? It’s a real fear. Or the fear of the tsunami of drugs — it’s everywhere, isn’t it? The kids that are here and there are many of them, don’t do drugs, don’t put that big 1,000-pound pack on your back and keep you from your God-given purpose. But all moms and dads worry that those drugs are going to wash away our own neighborhoods and maybe wash away our children. And how about those that struggle to make ends meet? There are some people just say, oh, well, just work harder or pull yourself up by your bootstraps. I believe in all that. Some people just don’t have the fortune that many of us have. And they struggle. They struggle for a whole lifetime and they worry, that can they rise? Can they — can they pull the rest of their family members up the ladder, the promise of America? And they worry about it. Or how about if you are a member of the minority community, an African American? You wonder. The system, I think, sometimes doesn’t just work for me but sometimes I feel like that system works against me. And you think about the troubles that many of our African Americans still face today in a world where we have worked to provide equal rights and opportunities. Sometimes they are not so sure and I don’t blame them. Or how about all of us? We pick up the paper. It’s Chattanooga, it’s Fort Hood, it’s ISIS. Are we safe? Are we going to be safe to go to the mall? Are we safe to leave our homes? These are the worries that many Americans have. But I have to tell you, as serious as these are — and they are very serious — we have had a lot worse, much worse in this country. Think about it, the civil war. You remember reading about it? I mean, it’s not just neighbors fighting against neighbors, but it was even family members, kin fighting against one another and killing one another on a battlefield right in America. How about the racial violence that we experienced in this country? The early days of television when they put the dogs and the gas and the batons on people of another color. Or the world wars, where many in our families never came home, leaving widows and children without a dad. Or the Depression, the Depression. Ask your grandfather, ask your mom and dad about that depression. My father used to say that he would go down to the store and get some food for the family and the guy would say, “We’ll put it on your bill.” There was no bill. That’s what it took for America to get through the Depression. And you all remember that crystal clear morning and the horror we felt on 9/11. But guess what? We’ve always got through it, because the testing is what makes you stronger. It’s the challenges that make you better. I have lived through them, and I have become stronger for them, and America has become stronger for them. And here’s how we’ve done it: by staying together. Not by dividing each other but by staying together with our eyes on the horizon, with our eyes on the horizon, about the future. We have a little town in Ohio called Wilmington. They followed that formula. Let me tell you about these folks. They played by the rules — worked every day, highly productive, teamwork — and one day, an employer said, “We’re leaving. We’re out of here.” And thousands of people, thousands of hardworking, God-fearing people like your neighbors, went from getting a paycheck on a Friday afternoon to visiting a food pantry so they could feed their kids. I was down there in 2010 after this earthquake — economic earthquake hit Wilmington. We had a campaign bus. My wife was with me. We walked through that food pantry. We looked at the people and preachers and civil servants and leaders and caregivers. They were at the food pantry, but they hadn’t lost any hope, because they had their eyes on the horizon. We got back on the bus — I will never forget it as long as I live — we got back on — on the bus, and I said, “Folks, do you understand” — some of them had been with me for a long time, so they got it. But some of the others were rookies. I said, “Do you understand what we are doing here? This isn’t a political campaign.” And by the way, either will this be. “This is not a political campaign. “Did you see those people? Did you see the tears in their eyes? Did you see them hugging their children? Did you see them not hopeless? We’re going to join in, and we’re going to help them, because it is our job and our mission as human beings, as children of God, to work with them, to lift them.” And guess what? And guess what? And in Wilmington today, the sun’s coming up. I told them that the sun would come up again. It hasn’t reached its zenith, but the sun is rising, and the sun is going to rise to the zenith in America again. I promise you, it will happen. Listen, you know — you know — you know who does this? See, it’s you and me. See, it’s teachers and preachers and moms and dads, doctors, construction workers, like that sweet man in Brown County that saw his family washed away over the weekend — keep him in your prayers — police and firemen and people like my dad, the mailman, John the mailman, because we are the glue, we are the glue that holds our country together. How about — as for me, as for me, look, I’m just trying to do my best, OK? I came here to Ohio State. I found myself on the 19th floor of one of the towers. You could hit it with a stone from here. I had 15 roommates. The place was 23 floors high. The tower next door, the same size. Ohio State can be a pretty intimidating place, OK. It’s big. It is a big place. And I left my dorm room, went down to the first floor and I walked just right down the path to Ohio Stadium. And it was a time when you could actually walk in that stadium, they didn’t have that one end closed in. And I walked into that stadium — I swear this happened — and I walked right to the 50 yard line. There was no one in the stadium that day, and I looked around. All of those seats, those big structures that were there and I thought to myself either this place is going to take me down or I’m going to take it down. One way or the other, it was going to be — you know, either it was going to be me or it was going to be a place, kids — because you’ll face it someday — to help me move forward. You know, it’s amazing, I’m back here today. You could throw a stone and hit that stadium or you could hit that dormitory so many years later, and guess what? I am here to ask you for your prayers, for your support, for your efforts because I have decided to run for president of the United States. You know, they — they ask you all the time like it’s a trick question or something, you know, well why do you want to do this. I mean, it’s like they’re going to catch you, right? I mean — I mean, if you can’t answer that question, you ought to be back at the 50 yard line at Ohio Stadium wondering about your future. I do this because — well, first of all, we’re not born to serve others. Think about this, I want you to think about this. If we’re not born to serve others, what were we born to do? I do this for my family, of course, for my sweet family, for my neighbors, Molly, for my friends of many, many, many years, many of whom are working with me today 30, 40 years later. I really do it for everyone. And I have to humbly tell you — and I mean humbly tell you — that I believe I do have the skills and I have the experience… I have the experience and the testing, the testing which shapes you and prepares you for the most important job in the world. And I believe I know how to work and help restore this great United States. And I have to tell you, it’s a daunting challenge. I was just at Wendy’s on Saturday up here on Hudson Avenue, and the two wonderful African-American fellows were there. And I walked in, I was standing behind them, and one said to the other one, I don’t know what I believe what I’m seeing, but I think that’s Governor Kasich standing behind me. And he said you better run. Do you know what meant to me? Two African-American guys, one with a knee — a brace on his knee and another one with a cane. And I said well, you know, people are going to have a lot more money than I am, and they looked at me and they said but you’ve got statistics, you’ve got statistics.  So some are going to ask, as they always have, why do you think you can do this. You know, all of my life, people have told me you can’t do something, OK? And I’ll tell you why. It’s because I do believe in the power of very big idea, big bold ideas. In 1976, I went out to the convention in Kansas City and not only worked for Ronald Reagan, but I worked with Ronald Reagan and I got to travel with Ronald Reagan. Yes, I actually knew the guy, OK, the real guy, not from the history book. He lost at that convention. I had been managing, I think, five states for him at that convention. I mean, you talk about lightning striking me. I was 24 years old. I walked in; they were one man short and said, could you manage five states for the governor? I had no idea what they were saying. I said, of course I could. OK? I had no idea about it. Well, he lost, as you know. And I was there when he met with his closest advisers. And he said we’ve lost the battle. We hadn’t lost any war because we will all be back. And I’m going to fix America with all of your help. And of course, he did and it further cemented my notion that big ideas — big ideas change the world. Big ideas change the world. So I came back — I came back here to Ohio and I was all charged up and I was working as an aide. And I came back and I remember meeting with one of my buddies. And I said, you know, I think I’m going to just run for the state senate and beat that guy we had been watching. And I remember he was drinking something and it fell on the floor when I told him that. People, look, I was 24.5 years old. I had no relatives that lived in the state. I didn’t really know anybody, but I had a big idea. And you know what we did? We went out and we got moms and dads, a lot of moms who went door to door and rang doorbells. And the weekend before the election one of the local newspapers said, he is a fine young man but he has no chance to win. Well, I won that election with the help of the army of volunteers. I went on to chair the health committee, where I learned to work across the aisle because the House was run by Democrats and that is where I learned that policy is far more important than politics, ideology or any of the other nonsense we see. You know, they said it couldn’t be done. We proved them wrong. And then at the ripe old age of 30 I decided I’m going to run for Congress. My mother and father are like, Johnny, what are you doing now? OK? Well, they said I couldn’t win. I was too young. And by the way, I was — I was going to run against an incumbent in 1982; it’s like the worst year. We lost 26 Republican seats that year. I was going to run against a guy — a guy who got one of his degrees from Harvard. That’s when I knew I had an edge. Clearly he couldn’t have gotten into Ohio State. And I knew I had an edge. And in 1982 I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat all across this country. And… … guess what? Here is the irony. I got to go to Washington and work with President Ronald Reagan. You know? They said — they said it couldn’t be done and we proved them wrong again. And then I got down to Washington and got on a — the Armed Services Committee, where I served for 18 years on national security. And I was there just the blink of an eye and I discovered that these hammers and screwdrivers had cost thousands of dollars. And it was taking the resources from the people that needed it who were serving in the military. We were wasting money. And I said we need to clean this up. And they’re like, “No, come on. It’s the Pentagon. You can’t — you — forget about it. It can’t happen.” Well, we passed some legislation and we made things right. We saved money. We improved the system. And we helped the military. They said it couldn’t be done and we proved them wrong again. Let me be clear. Our military must be improved. We need to — we need to… We need to cut the bureaucracy, and we need to strengthen our services. Now, I’m a person — I’m person that doesn’t like to spend a lot of money. But in this case, national security climbs to the very top of the heap, because we must be strong, and we must assume our role as leaders of the world. So six years after I got to Congress, I got on the budget committee. And I remember going to those first few meetings, Bob. I mean, it was, like, terrible, and I was complaining. I was up right here at a gas station in Westerville, and I’m saying, “These people don’t want to do anything.” And some guy walked around the pump, and he looked me square in the eye. He said, “Things are so bad, what are you going to do about them”? So I flew down to Washington, I met with my staff, about six of them, and I said, “You know, I think — I think we should just write a budget for the United States of America.” And they said, “Well, there’s, like, 100 people at the White House working on a budget and probably 50 up here, and we only have six.” And I said, “I know, we’re overstaffed, but we stay out of our way, we’ll be able to get this done.” And we wrote a budget for the United States of America. And why? Everybody knows me as a budget guy. It’s not about numbers; it’s about vision, it’s about values, and we do not have the right as grownups to ring up debts to suit ourselves and pass them onto the next generation. We don’t have that right. 10 years of my life I worked at this. My first budget was 405 to 30. I had the 30. My staff was depressed. I thought we were doing pretty well. That’s how I was. Well, we just kept at it and kept at it and kept at it. And you heard my great friend, John Sununu, by the way, one of the smart — he’s a wonderful, wonderful man. If John Sununu had not come to me and told me he was going to help me in New Hampshire, I wouldn’t have done this. I — I’ve just got to tell you. He is remarkable, and we did it together. And the politicians didn’t care about — they — they didn’t care about anything, about being reelected; they cared about fixing America, Pat. They cared about getting the budget balanced and getting the economy going. You know what? They said it couldn’t be done. They said it was too big, too hard, too much politics, and we proved them wrong again, and we balanced that federal budget. We balanced it. You want job creation, you balance the books. Am I right? You balance the books. And if I’m president — or maybe I should say when I am president… … I will promise you — I will promise you that my top priority will get this country on a path to fiscal independence, strength, and we will rebuild the economy of this country, because creating jobs is our highest moral purpose, and we will move to get that done. And by the way — by the way, how about a little balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution so Congress will start doing its job? So I left. You know, I — I — I left Washington and had a great time. You — you know, I was — worked at Lehman Brothers and learned about businesses, and I went to Fox News, where, as you know, I was a giant television star. And I had a great time. But you know, I — I had a calling. It was like — here’s kind of how it went. Didn’t hear anything, but it was clear to me. “You’ve had an amazing life. You got a lot of skills. You’re going back. You’re going back.” And I sensed it when I was on a trip and I came back and called my friends together and said, “I guess we got to do this,” and they — you know, a lot of people, the doubters, they said, “Well, you know, you haven’t been in politics for 10 years, in a decade. You have never run state-wide, and we haven’t defeated an incumbent in 36 years in Ohio. Incumbents don’t lose.” So we put together a vision, we put together a team. They said it couldn’t be done and we proved them wrong again. And then we took over the reins. But, you know, we didn’t go unprepared. We knew what we wanted to do, because I’m going to tell you, if I’m president, I know what we need to do, OK? There’s no confusion about that. I know what needs to be done. I have been there at all levels, OK. When we came in here, $8 billion in the hole, a loss of 350,000 jobs, $0.89 in the rainy day fund. One guy said that he game them a dollar just to double the rainy day fund. A lot of hopelessness here, particularly among the poor and minorities. People said maybe Ohio’s best days are behind them. I thought that was just a bunch of baloney. And I said not only will we get this budget balanced, but we’ll cut taxes, and they were like, are you kidding me? There’s no way we can do that. So we went to work. And we didn’t have to slash — we didn’t have to really slash things, we just had to use a 21st century formula. Improve things, innovate them, make a better product at a lower price. You know, let Mom and Dad stay in their home rather than being forced in a nursing home, let them stay in their own home where they’ll be healthier and happier. And if we have to knock down the special interests to get it done, so be it. And that’s what we did. Now today, four-and-a-half years later, $8 billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus. A loss of 350,000 jobs, a gain of 350,000 jobs. And tax cuts, tax cuts of $5 billion, the largest in the country. And as I hope you all know, economic growth is not an end unto itself. If you’re drug addicted, we’re going to try to rehab you and get you on your feet. If you’re mentally ill, prison is no place for you. Some treatment and some help is where you need to be. If you’re the working poor, we’re going to give you an opportunity to take a pay raise and not bang you over the head because you’re trying to get ahead. Well, we’re changing that system. If you have an autistic son or daughter, for most of them, they can get insurance, and we’ll work to make sure all of them have it. For the developmentally disabled, they’re made in God’s image. They have a right to rise, they have to be successful. And with all this — with all this, they said it couldn’t be done. And guess what? We proved them wrong again. And I’m going to take what we’ve learned here in the heartland, that band of brothers and sisters that I work with every day, and we are going to take the lessons of the heartland and straighten out Washington, D.C. and fix our country. Well, and you know, now they’re going to say — got a lot of them back here — they’re going to say well, you know, nice guy or good guy or whatever they — or not a good guy, whatever they’re going to say, OK. I don’t know if he can win. But with you, and you, sweetheart, OK; can you paint signs? And with — and with all of you, together, we’ll prove them wrong again, won’t we? We’ll prove them wrong again. AUDIENCE: Go John go! Go John go! Thank you. So our team — you know, we’ll tame the bureaucracy, we’ll restore some common sense. Mary Taylor has the Common Sense Initiative; get rid of all those stupid rules. Well, we’ll do that in Washington.  How about putting some people in the government that understand job creators and respect them rather than beating them down? How — how about that for an idea? How about some common sense and make America stronger militarily? But folks, here’s the thing that I want to say to you, and I said this at my inaugural. Some people think they just don’t matter in this. Do you know how wrong that is? You know, we got this Holocaust Memorial, and there’s a line etched that says, “If you save one life, you’ve changed the world.” Do you believe that? Do you believe that? If you save one life, you changed the world. And the Lord will record what you’ve done for another in the Book of Life. Now, we’ve got some values that we need to think about that can bring us together. Because folks, we’re a divided country, but we can fix it. I’ll tell you what I think some of them are: personal responsibility. God ate — or, “The dog ate my homework,” went out in the fifth grade, OK? Here’s the thing. We own our lives. I mean, if you’re hurting, we’ll help you. You know, my mother used to say — my mother used to say that it is a sin not to help somebody who needs help but it’s equally a sin to continue to help somebody who needs to learn how to help themselves. Personal responsibility needs to be restored in our country. Teach our children. Resilience. Everybody doesn’t get a trophy just for showing up, folks. You know what resilience is? It’s getting knocked down, and I have been knocked down so many times. But getting knocked down’s not the problem. It’s refusing to get up. We need to teach our kids, teach our children about resilience and remind ourselves that you’re 51 years old, and you lost your job. You’re going to come back stronger and better, and we’ll help you. Empathy, this one is so important. I just would ask you to think. Put yourself in the shoes of another person. We’re so quick to make judgments today in our country. Don’t walk so — so — so fast. You know, yesterday, I was coming downtown, and — and there was a lady, and she was older, and she had a cane, and she was barely walking. She was putting one foot in front of another. I wanted to stop and just hug her, encourage her. People who have not been dealt — dealt the best hand in life, yeah, we want to hold them accountable, but the Lord wants our hearts to reach out to those that don’t have what we have. I mean, that shouldn’t be hard for America. That’s who we are. When people have studied our country, they have talked about our compassion, and we need to bring it back. Empathy, don’t be so quick to judge. Me, too, OK? Me, too. And then teamwork. I know Tom Moe is up here. You know, one time, he — you know, he used to run the veterans. I call it the great arc of life. The man goes in the military, he sits in the Hanoi Hilton, beaten all the time in a tiny little cell, he comes home, and I put him in charge of the veterans. I mean, this was the arc, the beautiful arc of what’s right. Tom had a little code. I don’t know where he is right now. Here he is right here. He tapped out a code that kept them all together, and it was team that carried them through the most difficult times. Uncle George, it was team that helped you to be successful, wasn’t it? The Vietnam veterans and Iraqi veterans and the Afghanistan veterans, we do best. Or the Depression, when we all hung together. Teamwork, team, they’re not the enemy; they’re part of our team. We can disagree. They’re our team. And then family, huh? Look at these families here. It’s the building block of America. It’s the building block of our culture. Let’s recognize it. And of course, faith. And faith is real simple for me. It’s about the dos, not about the don’ts. And what it’s really about is God didn’t put us on this Earth just to take of ourselves, He put us on this Earth to make things a little bit better because we live here. And so there are some that are going to try to divide us; we see about it all the time. You know (inaudible) forget it. I don’t pay any attention to that kind of nonsense. At the end of the day, it’s about being together. Because, you know, it says We the People. And by the way, if you think that I or anybody who becomes president or a big shot, we don’t — we don’t move America. Oh, we do our part if we have courage and intelligence, but it’s all of us in the neighborhoods, in the families across the country. We’re the strength and the glue. Don’t — please, please, please don’t lose sight of it. As for me, I’m just a flawed man, a flawed man trying to honor God’s blessings in my life. I just — I don’t even understand it. He’s been very good to me. And I want you to know that I will do my very best to serve you because you are in my mind’s eye. Who are you? Get up every day, go to work, work hard, follow the rules, come home, spend time with your family and at night, you go to bed and say your prayers for your family, for your neighbors and for our nation. And folks, as it has been said many times, the light of a city on a hill cannot be hidden. The light of a city on a hill cannot be hidden. America is that city and you are that light. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you all very much.

Thank you. Well, normally I’d go off the cuff, but it’s too of a(n) extinguished group for me to do that. Just kidding. It’s great to be here at the Council, and it’s great to have a forum like this. And so I want to give you a pretty comprehensive view of my—of my view of the world, and then we can take some questions and it will be great. So I’m really honored and pleased to be with you today. You know, this kind of a—of a forum is really terrific because it’s something more than a seven- or eight-minute comment on a stage in the middle of the debate. It’s actually a chance to express yourself over a period of time. And with this in mind, I’d like to take a few minutes to describe my vision of what I consider to be the right way forward to preserve our way of life and to secure our nation’s future. I do so with the fundamental recognition that national security policy I have been attacking not Donald Trump, but Donald Trump’s ideas that divide this country for a very long time. And I’m glad to provide a little bit of cover for those who are beginning to wake up who are running for president. Whether in his plans to attack Hispanics, Muslims, databases, insults to women, insofar as to make fun of a reporter with a disability, this is not what leads to a strong America. I mean, and now this latest declaration. Look, people don’t buy this. Oh, there may be a few, but this doesn’t represent what we are. But you know, when you’re an American— When you’re in an “American Idol” primary, all kinds of crazy things happen, to be honest with you. It’s certainly not the way we function as a country. We have never been strong by focusing on things that are designed to divide us. And, look, I’ve been encouraged here by the number of moderate Muslims who have come out. They said that their religion has been hijacked. They have said—they have condemned aggressively the attacks all over the world. And you know, Bernard Lewis wrote a great book, I think, called “What Went Wrong,” where he talked about the need for Islam to reclaim itself. And I see signs of people wanting to fight for what their religion is really all about. And Iraq. Well, look, if Russia wanted to help us to fight ISIS, I’d welcome that. But it doesn’t change my view on Ukraine or Eastern Europe. I mean, there can be—there can be times in which we can work together for a common purpose, but it doesn’t let somebody off the hook when they invade another country or threaten invading our friends in Eastern Europe. We actually spent a little time before we came out here talking about this. If you take a look at the number of attacks—ISIS-inspired attacks throughout Europe, we hear about some of them. There are so many of them that have happened that we don’t really see, because some are larger than others. But this is—this is an attack on all of them. These are not going to go away. I mean, whether it’s in all the countries—I mean, who would have ever dreamt that we would have seen what we were seeing in Brussels. It’s everywhere. So there’s two ways to deal with it. You got to go to where the problem is. And my view is, you don’t have to lecture, but you got to talk to prime ministers, and leaders in countries. You got to talk to them privately. We all have to be part of it. And America needs to lead. When we’re not leading, they’re not going. And when we’re leading, we can convince them. I remember in the first Gulf War, and think about this, the first Gulf War was nothing more—and a big deal—but nothing more than Saddam invading Kuwait. And I remember when the Egyptian ambassador to the United States stood in the Rose Garden and pledged Arab support for our coalition. We’re now talking about an existential threat on everybody. What do you think that Hussein thinks in Jordan? What do you think the family thinks in Saudi Arabia? What do you think they think in the Gulf states? What do you think they think in Egypt, after—for a while there, we almost had a Muslim Brotherhood government. You know, they’re next. And so I think it is possible to put a coalition together if we lead and if people can count on us. You know, the red line was devastating to us. So, air power, important. But if you’re not on the ground, it isn’t going to work. Now, in Syria, I believe we should have been—you know, again, a lot of this is what should we have been doing. We should have been supporting rebel forces early on. I believe we ought to continue to support rebel forces. And I believe Assad has to go. But at the same time, I just think we’ve got to have a coalition and we’ve got to go. But it clearly isn’t going to happen now, because the president thinks his policies are working. Oh, I have no doubt. You know, I have been talking about this since last February. This is nothing new. And I just say—I don’t—polls. You know, polls—leaders that run on the basis of polls, they’re not leaders. I mean, don’t want have enough of focus groups and I’ll put my finger in the air. And, you know, I was governor of Ohio. I went in, in the first year we were devastated. And at the end of my first year, I was the most unpopular governor in the country. But I won 86 out of 88 counties when people saw the results. Lead. That’s what we want out of our political leaders. We want leadership, not people—but you got to be smart about it. You got to have the right tone. You got to know how to encourage people. You need to know how you put your arm around them. And you need to be the one out there doing the leading. And across the country I am told that more and more people understand this threat. People want this dealt with. Well, I think he—I think that he has done a few things in sending some naval forces into the Pacific to send a message to the Chinese. Clearly, not enough. I would—I would say that that would be one thing that would stand out, that he recognizes that problem there. I don’t spend all my time adding up all the things that I disagree with the president on, except he has a completely different view of the world than I do. I mean, he really believes that we ought to—he says—I don’t think he said it, but maybe he did—but lead from behind. I’ve never saw—that’s a new way in the 21^st century to define leadership, you have to lead from behind. But he has a different view. And he thinks that America leading is a negative. And I think that American leadership is, frankly, indispensable to world peace and our ability to deal with these—with this problem as it—you know, as it’s been accelerating. Well, I’d say, first of all, on climate change, when right after the attacks in Paris the president says we’re going to fight terrorism by doing climate change—I never understood that at all. Secondly, do I believe that human beings affect the climate? I do. The degree to which, I’m not sure, and neither is anybody else quite sure. Just imposing willy-nilly goals and rules that may not even be able to be achieved while displacing people in the workplace is not my idea of how you would handle this issue. I’m a believer in the renewables, but I believe in the whole series of energy resources, and I think they need to be exploited. Secondly, in terms of Trump, I signed a pledge—it’s why you have to be careful what pledges you sign—that I would support the Republican nominee.  Now, look, is it possible that you change your mind? Yeah. It takes something extreme to do it. But I will tell you, sir, there’s no way that Donald Trump’s going to be president. I’ve been saying that for weeks. I have—I don’t even take it seriously because he isn’t going to win. It’s not going to happen. And maybe we can all learn a little lesson from all of this. Yeah. Let me say one thing about the no-fly list. I mean, one thing you have to be careful of is we stop people in Ohio who are on the no-fly list—or, I’m sorry—the terrorism watch list. And the one thing we don’t want to do with people who are on the terrorism watch list, we want to make sure we know what they’re doing. We want to follow them and understand it. And I mean, and then when you look at the no-fly list, my concern with the no-fly list is you could be on the no-fly list. And we got to make sure that the people who are on that no-fly list are people who shouldn’t be on—you know, who shouldn’t fly on airplanes. And if we determine that they shouldn’t be on airplanes, then I think, if they have some due process, I don’t think they should be able to purchase firearms. But let me also tell you that I don’t think—you can take guns away from all the law abiding people, like the bumper sticker says, bad people will still have guns, and we won’t. And you know, I have two 16-year old daughters and a beautiful wife. And I want to be able to defend myself if somebody’s going to do me harm. But let me suggest something. Forget about the terrorism side. Talk about the mass shooting side. If you’ve noticed—if you have noticed that most of the mass shooters come from broken families, from neighborhoods that have fallen apart, you wonder, where’s the siblings? Where are the parents? Where is the father? What are we doing on mental illness? You know, I have an extensive program in Ohio on emergency beds and treating the mentally ill. But we need to look deeper as to some of the causes of what happens here. When people are isolated, mentally ill, feel as though their lives have no meaning, they can do really crazy things to harm others. So I think we need to go deeper on the gun debate than just the gun, and we need to get to the very root cause of what’s happening in our society, and what it is that we’re not doing to strengthen families, to strengthen neighborhoods, to be in a position of dealing with the real serious problems of mental illness, so. I wouldn’t run for vice president on any ticket, OK? I’m not running for vice president. I got the second-best job in America, governor of Ohio. And so don’t be thinking about vice president for Kasich. Ain’t going to happen. Mark my words. Oh, I’m—because I think I can win. Now, you know, New Hampshire is going to be important to us. And just keep your eyes on the ball. And then we will see what happens here. Look, when you—when you go— What I have learned—what I’ve learned for the many years dealing with the national security issues is you want two kind of groups of people. You want your traditional military people and those who think differently. You know, there’s always been a struggle, a war, between those who believe in sort of the traditional military operations and those who have spent more time in things like Special Forces. You want to have a divergence of opinion between your traditionalists and those who are not your traditionalists. And the same should hold true in civilian advisers, those who are your traditionalists and those who are not. My chief adviser is Richard Allen, the former national security adviser of President Reagan. He’s just terrific. But I have other people that I listen to. And I’m going to just give you one example of what I say when I talk about non-traditionalists. I asked one person with a long record in the CIA if they thought the CIA was capable of targeting. And you remember when we launched a drone strike and we hit the wrong target. This person, who served a long time in the CIA, said I don’t think the CIA is great at targeting. I think this is something that ought to be done inside of the Pentagon. I like that guy, because I like to hear divergent opinions about how to do things. So you want a variety of opinions. The same is true when it comes to people say how many forces on the ground? That’s not the job of a—well, if you don’t know anything, you might think you should answer that. But it’s not the job of the president to determine troop levels. It’s the job of the commander in chief to decide, we’re going to go. Give me a program. Give me two programs or three programs, and let’s sit down and aggressively discuss the alternatives. So much of what we do in a presidential campaign today is I’ve got to give you a slick little answer. Things don’t get solved with slick little answers. You know, when we talk about the problems of the no-fly list or we talk about the problem of encryption or we talk about the problem of cyber warfare, these things don’t lend themselves to some little, tiny little sound bite. It requires smart people with good intentions, intellectually honest in solving problems. If I find somebody that I work with that doesn’t operate that way, I don’t keep them involved. But you know what? Most people want to contribute to something greater than themselves. And that’s kind of the way I would do it. Well, you know, sometimes, you know, in life, isn’t it true that sometimes we’re tougher on our families than we are on people we barely know? The same is true, it seems sometimes, in international relations. We’re tougher on our friends than we are on our enemies. It’s kind of human nature to think that way. Israel is our great ally. If I have anything to say to them as president that I don’t like that they’re doing, I’m going to do it in a back room somewhere where no one else can hear me. I’m not going to do it with a bank of television cameras to embarrass our friend. And frankly, I don’t know what all the big discussion is about Israel. They are a great ally. You know, their existence is in question almost every day when we can’t even—I was somewhere. Somebody said, well, what are you going to do about, you know, the peace process? I said, look, when you have to go from Saudi Arabia and fly to Egypt in order to get to Israel, and if you’re in Saudi Arabia you can’t even find Israel on a map—why don’t we have the world recognize their right to exist? And until that happens, and until some of the radicals change their way, why do we undermine them? Let’s work with them. And we have things that we think we can do that contribute to a solution. Let’s do it. The other thing is, in regard to Israel vis-à-vis the problems there, there are no final answers. The approach to me in the Middle East in regard to Israel is how do we achieve stability? How do we get through the day and be stable? Because there is no single, simple, little resolution to the challenge that we have there. But we can’t forget that they are our great friend. Look, I believe that Turkey is a critical country. We had a conversation in the back about Erdogan. You know, I look at that and I wonder, where is he? I mean, I watch his interviews and I don’t think about politics. I think about sitting in a chair across from him. I think that the EU made a very big mistake when they refused to allow Turkey being part of their economic program. Turkey needs to be pulled to the West. They don’t need to be let go to the East. They could be a bridge to the Middle East. Now, people have told me that Erdogan, who I guess spoke here—I think I saw his picture on the wall out there—you know, he’s a tough character, clearly. One thing I would tell you is I don’t understand when the Russians—and some people have said, look, the Russian plane went in briefly and they shouldn’t have shot it down. I don’t know what the truth is there for sure. But what I know is when somebody invades your airspace and you take action, you don’t apologize to the country that invaded the airspace. It seemed to me as though we should have been saying to the Turks, you’re NATO. You did this. They entered your airspace, and we support you. I think the economics of Turkey may be a way to be able to get there. We’re going to have to deal with Turkey when it comes to a long-term resolution of the Kurdish issue. You know—as you all know, the Turks live in total fear of an independent Kurdistan. But the reality is that the Kurds are going to have to have someplace, maybe a confederation. I don’t know. But we have to think about it. And we’re going to have to work with Erdogan. And frankly, we’re going to have to spend a lot of time with him and understand what we can do to move them our way. I think it’s vital. Now, there was, you know, a long history of Turkish and Israeli good, positive relationships. I don’t think one precludes the other, and I don’t think—I think we need to work on this. I think public diplomacy has been at an all-time low. And I kind of believe around the world not only should we have a military presence—and General Jones, a former commander of NATO and former head of the Marine Corps, has said that, look, we need military. We need diplomatic. And let me tell you—you’re an investor from Texas—we need to—we need to have our business friends and partners around the world having something to say also. You know, I know somebody that runs a major oil company that I think knows more about Putin than the entire State Department. So we need to be able to listen to—and we understand they have a bias. They have a self—we know that. But they’re also Americans, and they have a lot to say. So public diplomacy—I just have friends in Columbus, Ohio who actually have opened a company in Turkey; be interesting to hear what they have to say. But we don’t want to lose the Turks. We want to bring them towards the West, in my opinion. And I would work aggressively to try to do that. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Well, look, here’s—in a nutshell; I can do this very quickly. I get a budget that gets us to balance in eight years. But I’m not promising you flat taxes and no IRS. Come on, folks. Let’s grow up, OK? Let’s be real about what’s going to happen. But I would bring the top rate down to 28, like Reagan did. I’d have three rates; be a simplified system; capital gains at 15. Now, in addition to that—and an increase in the earned-income tax credit so people at the bottom have an incentive to work. In the corporate world, I’d bring the corporate rate down to 25, have expensing in one year, accelerated depreciation. And at the same time I would bring all your money back from Europe, 5 or 6 percent tax, and then after that no more double taxation. That would provide about a point in economic growth. I also would restrain government spending. I’d freeze all non-defense discretionary for that period of time. But I would move welfare, job training, transportation, and Medicaid out of—out of Washington into the states, with greater flexibility, with some guardrails. And then I would increase defense spending by $100 billion and I would freeze all federal regulations for one year except for health and safety, and make a real effort to try to reduce our overregulated society. And all that adds up to about 3.9 percent growth, which would get us to a balanced budget. I think it would probably happen much sooner than what we project, but I’m going to be realistic with you. Now, in terms of international diplomacy, the—I haven’t checked this lately, but the Agency for International Development was supposed to take people from developing to developed. And in the history of their existence, no one has ever gone from developing to developed. I think our foreign aid leaves a lot to be desired. However, in 1998 or 1999, I was the guy that took Bono to Capitol Hill and worked with, believe it or not, Ted Kennedy and Jesse Helms——and Ronald—or Bill Clinton and Pat Robertson to pass the first debt-relief measure. Why? Because when our bombers fly over an African village and the men are shaking their fists, I want the woman to say—the women to say the United States vaccinated my children. So the deal is that foreign aid is important. Diplomacy is critically important. And the foreign aid that actually goes to help people—and I think what President Bush did, never got any credit for it, was really a follow-on on what Bono had started. So it’s things like clean water. It’s things like vaccinations. It’s things like mosquito nets. Absolutely they’re important. But you can’t come in there and create a big dam project that puts money in somebody’s pocket and then you displace all the people in the village, and all you do is create—you create anger and antipathy towards the United States. So of course there’s a big role there. But I hope you will also listen to what I said or suggested about the war of ideas. I believe that the Western ethic has to be defended. You’ve got to realize that when—who are these people to join ISIS? How do people from Starkville, Mississippi try to make their way to Syria? Who are they? Whenever people lose meaning in their lives, whenever they think their lives do not matter, whenever they become hopeless and frustrated, bad things happen—drug addiction, a turn to radicalization. We need to tell people that their lives do matter, that they can change the world, that, in fact, we have to live lives bigger than ourselves, and that we are for equality of women and science and progress and civilization. We have to communicate that in every mean we can to those people out there who sit on the fence and hear the propaganda from ISIS and their ilk. And foreign aid and diplomacy, it’s all part of it. OK? Well, those are two great questions.   Fix the Cleveland Browns. Probably start all over again.  You know, I have a hard time imagining living outside of Westerville, Ohio, let alone outside of America. You know, obviously I couldn’t imagine living in another country. What a—let me tell you, I mean, aside from all the rhetoric, my father—his father was a coal miner. He’d go down in the mine all day and he’d come up and they’d—he would say look at the coal I brought up. And the guy would say, well, that’s not coal; that’s peat. They would rip him off day after day. He had—there were eight kids in the family. I’m told by my Uncle George that my dad and my uncle at times went to school in clothes that were made out of flour sacks. My Uncle George can’t even believe what’s happened to his nephew. My mother’s mother was a Croatian. She couldn’t speak English. I never met my grandfather on my father’s side. I’m at the Council of Foreign Relations today. Now, I mean, I’m not—this is no suck-up. This is like a big deal.  I’m at the Council of Foreign Relations. I can’t even believe it. I’m with the guy that used to be the head of The Economist. I mean, this is really amazing. She would have been very enthralled with your accent. I can tell you that.  But— So where would I want to go? I mean, this is where I want to be. Now, there’s—I love to travel around. I took my wife to—I’m going on here. I want to tell you this. I took my wife to Prague. We went there for her 50^th birthday a couple of years ago. She’s much younger than I am. And it was unbelievable to go to Prague, to think about Vaclav Havel and to think about Vaclav Klaus and their struggles, and the beauty of that city that was spared the bombings of World War II. I then took her to Berlin. And we were standing at one of the last pieces where the wall is. My wife had never seen it. I had been there before the wall came down. I had visited the Soviet Union as a member of the committee. And standing at that wall, there was a woman in a carriage. She was on one side—this is just recently—standing on this side of the wall. And her son, who was kicking a little ball around, probably no more than six or seven, was on the other side. And I became emotional. And my wife is—and the guide that was with us said what the heck is wrong with you? I said just think about this. Before that wall came down, if you lived over here, you had a life. And if you lived over here, you lived in a big prison. We brought that wall down. We freed people. And we don’t often think about what we were able to achieve. And what I’m saying is we went to Paris. I mean, what’s better than Versailles? I mean, you know, I kind of like Louis XIV in a way.  He knew how to use executive authority.  And, you know, I love to travel. But I’m not leaving America. OK, I’m not. Even if the Browns win, I’m not leaving America.  This one lady’s been so patient. Yeah, we’re out, OK. Good. Thank you.   This is an uncorrected transcript. Jeb Bush discusses U.S. foreign policy challenges and opportunities. Chris Christie discusses U.S. foreign policy. Hillary Clinton discusses U.S. foreign policy and national security in the aftermath of the recent Paris terror attacks.


 I’m calling from Warren, Ohio. No, I’m not. I’m in Columbus. I’m in Columbus. I knew I’d get your heart to pitter patter. No, not now. You know, there was this guy. His name was Mike Parker. He was aDemocrat Congressman, and he became a Republican, and every day I’dlook at him and say are you going to switch? And he goes not today. Well, look, we’ve been very careful to maintain the integrity ofthat lake, Hugh. And you know, we’re always looking to help peoplearound the country, but we’ve got to make sure we maintain theintegrity of the lake. And look, there was this withdrawal from thelake that the legislature proposed, and all the Republicans voted forit, and I vetoed it, because it was rendering a lot of our smallstreams, tributaries, it was really damaging them. So you just don’t goand say you’re going to pull water out of there without understandingthe impact. But if there’s a way to send a little water your way andstill maintain a healthy lake, well, that would be worth thinkingabout. You’ll of course pay for the pipeline, right, out of your ownpocket? And we went to the Moon. You know what? Hey, listen, you won’t believe how hard I’ve beenfighting to make sure that lake is clean. And we just passed, listen tothis, Hugh, we just passed a major bill to stop the dumping offertilizer on frozen ground. And this was a very controversial issue,because we want to make sure the lake is as healthy as it can be. Andthey were dabbling around, and I said look, get this thing worked out.If you can’t get it done right, I’ll just write my own executive order.It turned out that, listen to this one, not only did it passunanimously, the final agreement, through the House and the Senate, butboth the farm community and the environmentalists all stood up at apress conference and endorsed it. No, that’s good political management, Hugh. Yes, exactly. No, no, no. In fact, I’ve taken a step forward. And for those whowant to see, www.newdayforamerica.com. www.newdayforamerica.com. Iformed this 527 which allows me to even travel more than I’ve alreadybeen doing.  Did you see the interview? Well, we’ll send it to you so you can take a look. I think you canhave your viewers take a look. Well, I mean, there’s a number of things. First of all, Hugh, youknow, I served on the Armed Services Committee for 18 years. I wasinvolved in some of the most major Pentagon reform, getting theservices to fight together and work together. And it was just acritical change called the Goldwater-Nichols bill, and my job on ArmedServices was to take America’s resources and apply them so that wecould deal with the challenges to our country. In regard to Putin, Imean, the thing is we need all of Western Europe to be, we need torebirth those relationships. I mean, I think that the strength toGermany, France, England, Spain, Italy, and all those other nationsthere including Central Europe together have to move. And frankly, I’vebeen aghast that we’ve not been able to get the toughest economicsanctions against Putin, and squeeze him as hard as we can to get himto back off a lot of this treachery. To me, there ought to be, thereshould be material, equipment, there ought to be, you know, militaryequipment sent over to our friends in Ukraine. We ought to bereassuring our allies in Central Europe. We ought to be strengtheningNATO, and we’ve got to get these countries to work with us in a muchmore strong way. I think we have to rebuild those relationships, Hugh.They have been tattered over a long period of time, and they need to berebuilt. And we have to work as a force that shares this whole sort of,you know, this Judeo-Christian Western concept. And it’s been tatteredand needs to be rebuilt. No, Hugh, I’m not going to get into when do we go to war and whendo we not. We should make it exceedingly clear that we are united atNATO, that any threat on a NATO nation means that there’s a threat uponus. And let’s not get into well, what if Putin launches himself to theMoon. Let’s just be clear. NATO has to mean something. It has to bestrong. And an attack on one is an attack on all. Hugh, here’s, I don’t know. That again is another hypothetical,okay? And I’m not trying to dodge your question. I don’t likehypotheticals. Here’s what I will say. This is not an agreement thatshould be followed at this point. We shouldn’t go along with this. Whatwe’re basically doing is leaving in place the infrastructure for thecapability of producing not only a nuclear weapon but additionalnuclear material. That can in fact be spread to places like the groupsthat are non-state groups like Hamas, Hezbollah. This is a very, very,very dangerous situation. I think that the administration has fallen inlove with trying to get an agreement. And when I saw the other day thatour president said that well, maybe we can lift these sanctions soonerthan what we originally thought, you can’t just fall in love with anydeal. And the idea that we would leave this all in place, that we wouldnot have inspections throughout the entire country on demand, that wewould be unlimited in terms of where we could go. Those are the kind ofthings, and they have to stop all this terrorist activity. And it’s notmuch different than what Netanyahu said. When they change their way, wecan talk. And we don’t change their way, and we rely on trust, nothanks. Well, the threat’s changing, Hugh. You know, the threat haschanged. I mean, we no longer worry about this invasion over the FuldaGap over in Europe You probably didn’t even know that there was such aplace. And here’s the thing. The military, we have to build a Pentagonthat is based on the threat, not based on relics of the past that areconnected to some parochial interest by a senator or a congressman. Andthat is extremely difficult to do. The procurement reform that’s neededinside the Pentagon, it’s been a constant, I mean, I’m now, you know, Iserved in Congress for 18 years. I’ve been out for, what is it, 15years. That’s, what is that, 33 years, okay? They’ve been complainingabout Pentagon reform. I was engaged in the reform of procurement,Hugh. I was one of the guys that was involved in finding the hammersand the screwdrivers and the toilet seats that cost all that money.Procurement reform is difficult. It should be ongoing. Secondly, thesystems that we build and the systems that we need should fit thethreat that America faces in the world. And if in fact we need torebuild some of the vital activities that we have in the air, on theland and in the sea, to meet the threat, we have to do, because if wedon’t have a strong military, we’re not taking care of one of the mostimportant things of the federal government, which is the commondefense. Because Heritage says X, so what? I mean, other people say,what, our former Secretary of Defense said 8. I mean, this is just notsomething you decide on the back of an envelope. You study it, you tryto figure out how America can project power. And when it gets to whereit needs to be, to project it power, it can project it in a lethalmanner that in fact can accomplish our goals. And secondly, we shouldnot be involved in trying to change, you know, try to convert everybodyto our kind of way of life and democracy. Where it works, great. But weshould not be engaged in all this nation building. It doesn’t work. Weshould be able to go places quickly, we should be able to deliver alethal blow, accomplish our purposes, and then get out. But except this, except this, Hugh. I think it was a terribletragedy that we left basing rights in Iraq. That is just a hugemistake. No way we should have ever left our bases over there. Weshould have said we’re going to keep a base here. If you don’t like it,that’s your problem. That was our right, and we walked away from it, aterrible mistake. No, no, no. I’m saying you’ve got to look at everything across theboard, Hugh. You know, there’s always debates about do we need thisadvanced aircraft or do we not, and you know, do we need this new, thisMarine landing vehicle. We just have to look at that, and of course,carrier groups are very important, because they help us to projectpower. Now how many we exactly need today, I can’t tell you that. But I will tell you this. You don’t skimp on America’s ability toproject power and to be effective when it does. And that of course would involve things like carrier groups. You mean whether we should have 11 or 12 or…probably… Probably, you know what? I don’t know. I don’t know. I have tothink about it. I mean, is that, you know, you could ask a millionquestions about different parts of the Pentagon budget. My, I wouldtell you this. We need to project power. Now if you go down to 8, itsounds to me like it’s too few. Maybe we should have an answer likethat. I’ll try to, I’ll tell you what. I’ll try to get you one. Well, I mean, what you do mean by that? Should we have been therenation building? I mean, should we have landed troops over there? Idon’t know. I don’t know. I mean, I think that you know, the problemhas been that we have not been consistent in the Middle East andassertive. And that’s been a problem for us. And when we went out ofIraq and didn’t keep our base and didn’t mind the store and didn’t armin the early stages the opposition to Assad, all these things have leftus in a position of where see things falling apart. And you know, atthis point in time, I can’t tell you what I think we should do inLibya. I wouldn’t tell you that I think we need to be putting troops inLibya. I wouldn’t be for that. But you know, it’s a result of some ofthe big miscalculations, and frankly, I guess you’ve got to start whereyou are. But I wouldn’t be telling you we should put troops there. No. No. No, and I don’t think they should. Well, it’s a federal issue. I’m the governor of the state, and youknow, what they need to do is make sure that they carry out theirmission. I was, didn’t even think that they would, and wasn’t concernedabout it. Well, you know, look, these lone actors is one of the great threatswe have in our country. And I’ve always known that Ohio was a statethat was at risk. We are doing everything we can on homeland securityto beef it up, to get more, better people in there. Our public safetydepartment, they work, you know, our homeland security works with ofcourse all the intelligence agencies to make sure that we’re on top ofthings. Am I shocked? No. I’m not. But this lone wolf theory issomething that has me extremely concerned. And that kind of goes backin an indirect way, Hugh, to what you asked about Iran and the abilityof these non-state actors to acquire material… …to get it to people who could, you know, they’re not going toexplode a nuke if they just have the material. But they have thecapability to release a dirty bomb. And I mean, those kinds of thingsare, you know, they’re beyond just being a terror weapon. They’re goingto wreak a lot of death, and it’s dangerous. So we just have to becognizant of the problem of the lone wolf, of course, and bettermonitor those who travel in and out to these countries that are, thatyou know, that where we think there is a risk of terrorism. I’m more concerned about the American view than I am, you know, thepolitical side of this. You know, it was not, I guess it was about twomonths ago, maybe a little longer. I think I was the first Republicanto say in regard, you know, leading, major Republican, if I could callmyself that, to argue that a coalition between Europe and our friendsin the Middle East ought to go after ISIS, and that we, America,including America, ought to have boots on the ground. I mean, there areactions that we need to take. Now I have a long record on this. I didnot support U.S. troops in Lebanon in the middle of the Civil War. Iwas never in favor of the kind of activity we did in any civil wars,including Bosnia. But I supported the Gulf War, obviously. I supportthe war in Afghanistan. So I think we have to be very careful to stayaway from civil wars. I think we have to be very careful that when wesee something that is in our direct interest that we can go and takecare of business and not involve ourselves in this whole process ofnation building. That’s what I, and I think we should have the most modern weapons,great technology to do the kind of things that we need to do to carryout our purpose. Well, I don’t know what you’re saying with that. I don’t know whatthat shorthand means. Like where? It depends where. Yeah, well, I mean, look, they still don’t have, what we were ableto do there, the good that came out of it is obviously, they were ableto simmer things down. But there’s no, it’s not great over there. Butwhat I will tell you is in places like the First Gulf War, Afghanistan,I’m 100% for it. I think it made total sense. I don’t think we should, I don’t think we should run out ofAfghanistan. But you know, getting in the middle of civil wars, I don’tthink is a good idea. I don’t want to go back and redo that. I mean, it was there, and Idon’t want to disparage anybody who served our country. I’m just goingto reserve my comment on that. Hey, by the way, Hugh, before we get to the domestic issue, youknow, it was Casper Weinberger that developed the Weinberger doctrine. I support fundamentally the Weinberger doctrine. But I will alsotell you there’s a smart guy over there at the Wall Street Journal… …who he wrote a column, Bret Stephens…. It was a, sort of an amplification of the Weinberger doctrine, andI endorse that. Go places, mean business in your interest, take care ofbusiness and don’t hang around. That is a part of the Weinbergerdoctrine. You know the problem with civil wars? You know the problemwith nation building? You go in and then when do you ever get out? Andso I think it’s, you know, this shorthand kind of running through ofWeinberger this, Schultz that and Bolton is this, that’s notsophisticated analysis of U.S. foreign policy, to be honest with you. How do you like that, Hugh? Hey, the other thing is, look, and maybe in a place like Libya,just like I was in the early days of Syria, we’ve got people we cansupport. It doesn’t mean we have to be there. But there’s clearlythings that we can do. We don’t have to have troops in Ukraine, but wecan clearly provide them the military equipment that they need to beable to defend themselves. They’re our allies, okay? We believe theUkrainians. Let me also tell you when it comes to, like I say, theearly days of Syria and even now, Assad has to go. But that doesn’tmean we have to put boots on the ground. But I think it is importantthat we are engaged. And I’m sure that the same exists in Libya. Imean, we’ve got to find the forces, if we can, the clear forces thatcan help us to support the foreign policy that we think is going to bethe best for stabilizing that region. One last thing I wanted to tell you, one last thing about theMiddle East, people who think that there is a solution are naïve. Thegoal in the Middle East, vis-à-vis Israel, is stability and an absenceof violence. There is no, you know, silver bullet that’s going to fixall that magically. Anybody who believes that doesn’t understand, well,I’m just going to say, it’s a naïve view. Yup. Yes, absolutely, of course. And you see, that, there’s anotherproblem of where we were, you know, we were kind of behind the curveagain. And I think what the Saudis, the Jordanians and the Egyptiansare doing is the right thing to be, you know, the activities they’reconducting are the right activities. I’m not sure they’re having allthe impact that they would like to have at this point, but we clearlyshould be working with these folks. But at the same time, in regard tothe Saudis, you know, the Saudis have been able to have it both ways.They are, you know, we find that we share a lot of interests with them.But you know, there’s a number of things that they do including thefunding of some of these groups that are literally terrorist groupsthat not only work against us, but work against them. Somebody’s got tocall the tune on this. I’m totally opposed to it. Well, I don’t, what’s the implications of that, Hugh? I mean, thestate has voted for it, you know what I mean? On what grounds would youshut them down? I don’t know. I’d have to think about it. Here’s my great concern.First of all, you have a states’ rights issue. The people in thosestates have voted that way. The federal government has decided to kindof look the other way. I feel very strongly in my state, I’m going tooppose, and they’re going to put something on the ballot to legalizedrugs. I’m totally opposed to it, because it is a scourge in thiscountry. Now I would have to give it thought as to, I probably wouldnot from the standpoint that the states have gone forward to provethat. I haven’t thought about this. I’d have to give it a littlethought. Well, let me tell you this, though. In my state and across thiscountry, if I happened to be president, I would lead a significantcampaign down at the grassroots level to stomp these drugs out of ourcountry. We’re doing it in Ohio in a variety of ways through education,prosecution, and it’s an unbelievably serious problem. I don’t know ifyou saw the New York Times on Sunday. You know, the quiet death causedby heroin and no one pays any attention to it, these are horrificthings. And… I have to think about it. You’re making, you know what? You may be right. I just want to giveit some thought. And by the way, that’s, you’ve got to understand the way that Imake decisions. When a problem comes up, we look at it. I sit in theroom with the best people that can help me to devise a solution. Youknow, one of the things about this whole business of running forpresident, or running for governor, running for everything, are allthese hypotheticals. I don’t usually deal with hypotheticals in thisjob. I mean, in Ohio, as you know, we are in a significant recovery. Weare addressing the problems with drug addiction and mental illness, andthe working poor, reforming our welfare laws, cutting taxes, growingjobs. You get ahead of yourself when you start thinking about howyou’re going to do all these things, because I don’t know if younoticed this, Hugh. During a presidential campaign, you hear a lot ofthings that get said, but then when the person gets elected, you noticehow little of what they said they were going to do, they do. Because they’re answering hypotheticals. And I think the best wayto do this is look at a problem, get your best people together andconsider your options. That’s how I try to run things, and I’ve beenpretty successful at it. No, I understand. I’d have to think about it. And again, you raise a very, very good question, and you have tobalance states’ rights off against what the federal law is. You know what? Everybody needs to take a deep breath and have alittle fun once in a while, huh?
