Good to be here. I'm not sure I particularly see that as a lifelong aspiration, but in listening to so many people clamoring for me to do this over the last couple of years, I finally decided that maybe I should give it some consideration. I was comforted by the fact that all the political pundits said it was impossible and that there's no way you could put together an organization to run a campaign at a national level, no way you could have enough funding to do that, and I said, "Phew. Great." Pressure's off. But I said, "Lord, if you want me to do this, open the doors and I'll do it," because, as I start listening to people - particularly elderly people - telling me that they had given up on America and they were waiting to die, it really stirred my heart. And I start listening to younger people who are so concerned about their children and grandchildren and I said, "What is it that people are asking for?" And as I began to study the issue I began to understand that they're asking for something different than what we've had because we keep going down the same path. And you know, this country was really designed for citizen statesmen, and not for career politicians. Well yeah. I've had a lot of experiences in life where people said things couldn't be done, to the point now where I almost don't even want to try it unless people tell me it can't be done. Well I know what efficiency looks like, and I know what inefficiency looks like. I've had an opportunity to work in universities, sit on university boards, as opposed to working with corporate boards, and noticing the rapidity and the efficiency with which things are done in one area versus the other area. And, sometimes the same kinds of problems. So also, starting a national nonprofit. As you know, nine out of 10 of those fail, and the Carson's scholar fund is active in all 50 states, has won two major national awards, which are only given to one organization out of tens of thousands each year. Obviously those are not things that can be done without understanding how things work. And much more efficient, recognizing that we have 4.1 million federal employees, and we have 645 government agencies and sub-agencies. And there's an enormous amount of inefficiency and overlap to be gotten rid of. And there are turnaround programs like Lean Six Sigma that are used out in the business world that are incredibly effective in turning things around and in saving money. And the American people deserve to have an efficient government. I don't think anybody objects to paying taxes, if they thought that it was being used efficiently. And if in fact we did use it efficiently, imagine what it would happen. Imagine what would happen if we used the government resources in an efficient way to generate income. Well, first of all, recognize that it's not that difficult. If we simply refuse to extend the budget by one penny for three to four years, you got a balanced budget. Just like that. So this is not pie in the sky, very difficult thing to accomplish. Having said that, one of the bugaboos that has kept us from reducing government in the past is sacred cows. What I would do is first of all, allow the government to shrink by attrition. Don't replace the people who are retiring, thousands of them each year. And No. 2: Take every departmental head, or sub-department head and tell them, "I want a 3 to 4 percent reduction." Now anybody who tells me there's not 3 to 4 percent fat in virtually everything that we do is fibbing to themselves. What I'm not gonna continue to do is supply money for everything. If you have to cut your budget by 3 to 4 percent, that automatically answers your question. Let me put it this way: if I were the president, I would not sign an increased budget. Absolutely would not do it. They would have to find a place to cut. No, I would provide the kind of leadership that says, "Get on the stick guys, and stop messing around, and cut where you need to cut, because we're not raising any spending limits, period." What I'm saying is what we have to do is restructure the way that we create debt. I mean if we continue along this, where does it stop? It never stops. You're always gonna ask the same question every year. And we're just gonna keep going down that pathway. That's one of the things I think that the people are tired of. OK, let me try to explain it in a different way. If, in fact, we have a number of different areas that are contributing to the increasing expenditures and the continued expenditures that are putting us further and further into the hole. You're familiar I'm sure with the concept of the fiscal gap. OK, well, the fiscal gap is all of the unfunded liabilities that the government owes. Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, all the departmental programs, all the agency and sub-agency programs extending into the future, which is a lot of money, versus the amount of revenue that we expect to collect from taxes and other revenue sources. Now if we're being fiscally responsible, those numbers should be fairly close together. If we're not, a gap begins to occur. We bring that forward to modern day today's dollars, and that's the fiscal gap, which sits at over $200 trillion and is continuing to grow. Now the only reason that we can sustain that kind of debt is because of our artificial ability to print money, to create what we think is wealth, but it is not wealth, because it's based upon our faith and credit. You know, we decoupled it from the domestic gold standard in 1933, and from the international gold standard in 1971, and since that time, it's not based on anything. Why would we be continuing to do that? Not necessarily 10 percent, but I use 10 percent because it's easy to work the numbers. I think it would probably be closer to 15 percent. Well first of all, recognize that you also close all the loopholes and all the deductions, because as soon as you provide those, people start migrating towards them and the field becomes non-flat once again. That's key. And then you also have to recognize that all the spending that we're doing, in my opinion, is not legitimate spending. Well, the assumption of so many people is that every penny that the government spends is critical. You remember Nancy Pelosi saying, "If you cut one penny, the system will collapse"? And that's not true. So in terms of what we actually need to run the government, I don't think it's anywhere near what we're talking about now. Right now, we're looking at three and a half trillion to $4 trillion. Closer to three and a half trillion right now, but a trajectory we're on, we'd get to four trillion before long. We don't need that when we're talking about a GDP of only $18 trillion, and in fact our national debt will exceed our GDP this year, so we have a 103 GDP to debt ratio. Yes. Because you don't understand the concept of what I'm talking about. The concept of across the board cutting of fat, because there's so much of it in so many different departments. See that's what certain people always say. They come out and they pick things, and they say, particularly they try to pick things that, you know, might upset people. You remember a couple of years ago? "Well if we can shut down White House tours, and we can close the national parks, and we can do this." You know, whatever you can do to get people's emotions stirred up. And what I'm talking about is across-the-board everything. You cannot convince me that there isn't any department that is completely 100 percent efficient and you can't find fat. No. What I am saying is that we need to take health care out of the political realm and actually come up with something that actually works. And I have proposed a system that actually works. It will provide much better coverage than they have right now, and they will not be second-class citizens. Everybody will be of equal value under the system that I propose and it will cost us less money. Well that has nothing to do with that part. I will explain why I said that in a minute, but because the kind of care that they're getting doesn't necessarily reimburse the health care provider the same way as regular insurance. A lot of them have difficulty finding a primary care physician or the kind of health services they want, and now they end up in the emergency room. With the system that I've proposed, everybody is of equal value and you have choice. Now in terms of why I dislike the so-called Affordable Care Act so much— Because the country is supposed to be of, for and by the people. The government is supposed to be there to facilitate life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for the people. With this act, the government comes along and says, “We don't care what you people think. This is what we're doing, we're cramming it down your throat, and too bad.” Well that fundamentally changes the relationship between the government and the people. The people are supposed to be the pinnacle, and the government is supposed to work for the people, not the other way around. And we have become so accustomed to taking orders from the government that many people didn't even realize what was happening with this. And that's why to me, it is so alarming, and that's why people need to be awakened to what America was supposed to be, and not what somebody is trying to fundamentally change it into. I think our debt is horrendous. You know, one of the things that happens with this level of debt is that it's very difficult for the Fed to raise interest rates. And why is that such a problem? Well it used to be that Joe the Butcher would take 5 percent of his earnings every week and put it into a savings account. And he would watch that grow over two, or three, or four decades. And by the time he was ready to retire, he was in good shape. Now, poor people and middle-class people really don't have a mechanism to grow their money. The only people who can grow their money are people who have a certain risk tolerance. And those tend to be upper-income people who can utilize the stock market. And therefore you see that income gap growing. The other thing that's growing — that income gap, I think that's a severe problem for us — are the numerous regulations, and every single regulation costs in terms of goods and services. It is passed on. But who is most adversely affected? Poor people and middle-class people. It doesn't hurt the rich very much. So again, you see the buying power of the middle class and poor people going down. These things are increasing the gap. And when people come along and say, “It's the rich people, it's their fault, and if we can take their money and redistribute it, somehow that's gonna solve the problem.” That's an emotional argument, and I think it appeals to our lower elements but it has nothing to do with reality. No, reality is that we need to drive down our national debt. Get that GDP ratio below 90 — that GDP-to-debt ratio. Many economists will tell you that as soon as it gets beyond 90, you get great sluggishness. Bear in mind that from 1850 to 2000, our economy grew at an average of 3.3 percent. From 2001 into 2014, it grew at an average of 1.8 percent. That's a big difference. Extend that out over 20 years, at 1.8 percent, you're talking a $26 trillion economy. At 3.3, you're talking about a $35 trillion economy. That's a huge difference, particularly when you're talking about unfunded liabilities. Those are the kinds of things that are killing the poor and the middle class. It's those silly, asinine policies. It's not because of rich people. Well, you know, I've known Janet Yellen for a long time. We've served on boards together, and she's a very intelligent individual, very responsible, and obviously is trying to do what she thinks is right. But she's caught between a rock and a hard place, and I understand that. And that's why I would tend to really put the emphasis on driving down our debt, because that's how we begin to correct the problem. You know, unless we correct the fundamental problems, all the other stuff we're doing isn't going to matter that much. Well it’s going to look like something that is looking out for every segment of our society. It’s going to be a government that recognizes that we only have 330 million people, and we’re competing on a global scale, global stage against China, India, both of whom have over a billion people. We need to maximize the potential of every single one of our people. You know, we need to understand that education is the great divide in our nation. There’s going to be a much more emphasis on educational choice. Also, recognizing that if we get defense wrong, nothing else matters, because we live in a hostile world. So you’re going to see our military capabilities improve quite substantially. You’re going to see us really taking care of our veterans rather than just talking about it. Recognizing that we have a 14 percent decrease in people applying for our volunteer military. That’s going to hurt us badly in the long run. You’re going to see us concentrating on our vulnerabilities, like our electrical grid, which is woefully vulnerable right now, from a number of possibilities. You’re going to see us beef up our cyber capabilities substantially, you’re going to see us respond to people who attack us in a way that they will never forget. You're going to see us get back into space, understanding that so many inventions came out of the space program. We cannot get behind in innovation, and in the future, he who controls space controls the Earth. You're going to see much more proactive stance towards someone like Putin, you know, we're going to be much more active throughout the whole Baltic basin area, Eastern Europe, we're going to reestablish missile defense program, we're going to have more than one or two armored brigades in that area. We're gonna stand up to him, every place in the Middle East, we're not gonna back down. We're going to use our energy resources in an appropriate way, get rid of the energy exportation rules uh, that are archaic, put into place in the 1970s. We don't need those anymore. We're going to use the EPA to work with business, industry and academia to find the cleanest, most environmentally friendly ways to exploit our tremendous energy resources. We're going to use those to make Europe dependent on us for energy rather than Putin, put him back in his little box where he belongs. We're going to be taking a whole geopolitical strategy that is proactive, and not reactive. Exactly. You know what, I've gotta tell you this, you might find it a little amazing, but you know, throughout my life, I've been faced with people saying, "You can't do this, this is impossible." So that doesn't bother me when people say that. Well, why would I tell them? But you know, we just try to be open, honest and interactive with people so they get a chance to really understand who I am. That's really been the secret to why we've been growing, why the poll numbers are getting better. It's because I don't hide, I go out there, I talk to people, they get to actually hear me, I explain things to them. And for instance, you won't hear any traditional politician talking about the fiscal gap. Not one, will you hear them talking about that. Why? Because it's a frightening concept, and they want to get re-elected. Well, I'm not so much interested in that as I am in making sure that the American people really understand what's going on, because our founders said that our system and our freedom is based upon a well-informed and educated populace. And if they ever become other than that and they'll be easily led astray. I think it feels very, very frightening. And you know, that's what I was talking about when I'm talking about the regulations and how they hit that person. And talking about the fact that they cannot seem to grow their money, and they see this income gap widening, and they're feeling that they're being left behind. And I think we need to readjust our policies and aim them, once again at the middle class. Recognizing that that's how this nation quickly reached the pinnacle in the beginning. We emphasized education. And we had people who, quite frankly, were very wealthy. You know, the Europeans, they looked over here and they saw the Rockefellers, and the Vanderbilts, and the Fords, and the Kelloggs, and the Carnegies, and the Mellons, and they said you can't run a country like that. You've gotta have an overarching government that receives all the funding and equity that redistributes it, so we actually inspired socialism. But all of those people that I just mentioned, they didn't just hoard money and pass it down from generation to generation, they built the infrastructure of our country. They build the transcontinental railroads and seaports and textile mills and factories that enabled the development of the most powerful and dynamic middle class the world has ever seen, which rapidly propelled us to the pinnacle. That's what we have to start thinking about once again. Well, I have a number of economic advisers. Tom Rustici is the primary one but we have a number of very, very excellent people. Has been a pleasure, thank you.

 With every passing day, opposition mounts against the woeful nuclear deal negotiated by the administration with the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism—the Islamic Republic of Iran. The White House is making a full court press to muster support for a bargain it sees as a key legacy issue for the president, but which serious Middle East scholars, military officials, legislators, diplomats, nonproliferation experts and a wide range of others view as a dangerous gamble that poses a serious threat to American national security. The deal will enable $150 billion to flow into the coffers of a rogue regime that systematically abuses the human rights of its own citizens, foments violence in the Middle East, funds terrorist proxies who have killed hundreds of American soldiers and whose leaders decry the United States as the “Great Satan” and lead mass rallies featuring chants of “Death to America.” And let’s not forget the American hostages who continue to suffer in captivity just as they did while talks proceeded apace and concluded with handshakes and smiles. Viewed on its own merits, the deal is an abject failure that will leave Iran as a nuclear threshold state in just 10 years. The deal seeks to quickly roll back layers of sanctions that took decades to assemble and to dismantle a much-needed arms embargo on Tehran, thereby allowing the Iranians to proceed with efforts to amass sophisticated weaponry and develop intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of carrying conventional or nuclear warheads to our own shores.
The agreement fails to answer critical questions about the possible military dimensions of the nuclear program Iran assembled in secret over decades, provides international legitimacy to Iran and allows Iran to keep the infrastructure of its illicit nuclear program intact. It foregoes anytime, anywhere inspections for managed access and 24-day delays that former IAEA veterans have warned Iran can use to block inspectors and sanitize suspect sites, just as they have done in the past But just as shocking as the decision to actually agree to such a flawed deal are the lengths to which the administration is going today to tar and feather those who dare speak out against it. By playing politics with a critical national security issue, President Obama is cementing his well-earned legacy as the Divider in Chief. In a speech at American University defending the deal Obama stooped to new lows far beneath the dignity of the office of the presidency, savaging deal opponents as warmongers and saying that “those hardliners chanting ‘Death to America’” in Iran were “making common cause with the Republican caucus.” Shockingly, his diatribe also was replete with coded innuendos employing standard anti-Semitic themes involving implied disloyalty and nefarious influences related to money and power. One can only imagine the sting of his words on members of his own Democratic party, especially those Jewish Members of Congress who have publicly stated their opposition to this deal based on its merits or lack thereof. It takes a certain amount of courage to stand on principle rather than falling into line in support of a risky agreement that flies in the face of America’s strategic interests. In my book, doing what you feel is correct even when it is not politically expedient and requires you to withstand relentless pressure from the White House and its surrogates constitutes true leadership. Since his speech, the reverberations of Obama’s reckless, spiteful language have been ringing out across the United States, causing grave concern. Leaders from across the political spectrum, including prominent fellow Democrats have stepped forward to decry the White House’s bully tactics In the end, all Americans are left to wonder why divisive, scurrilous rhetoric and heavy-handed political hardball are necessary to defend this deal. If the agreement with Iran can actually withstand the test of scrutiny, then why is the White House so afraid of an open discussion about the deal and its shortcomings and so quick to demonize those who think America deserves better? By reducing a vitally important matter with life and death consequences to a partisan football the president is doing a disservice to the American people. For months the president and his secretary of state proclaimed that no deal was better than a bad deal. Today, a bad deal has been reached and they have changed their tune completely, saying that the only alternative to this deeply flawed agreement is war. It is clear that the president and his team are in full campaign mode, demonstrating a steely resolve to jam through this misguided Iran deal at all costs. They are smearing those who dare to raise questions and employing a take no prisoners approach complete with bigoted dog whistles and malicious whisper campaigns that cynically divide ur country. Just imagine how different things would be today if Obama and his negotiators had demonstrated a fraction of this tenacity at the negotiating table with the Iranians. It’s not yet too late. Democrats in Congress must put policy above partisanship and reject this very bad deal. For everyone’s sake, I pray that they will ultimately decide to do what is right for the United States as opposed to what they are being told is right for their party’s leader. During the coming weeks the American people should continue to demand a better deal with Iran that will dismantle Tehran’s nuclear program and strengthen, rather than threaten, our nation’s long-term security. 

For much of the past century, America has embodied, both in word and in deed, a commitment to freedom and democracy that has improved the lives of billions of people all over the world. Leaders such as Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan saw the importance of a foreign policy based on American values and grounded in American leadership. They understood that smart, strategic engagement was the only way to ensure our security, champion our values, and advance our interests. One of the most unstable and dangerous areas of the world today is the Middle East. Events that take place there have serious repercussions all across the globe that directly impact America’s national security. In the Middle East, the United States must return to a position of global leadership — mere engagement is not enough. And while multilateral diplomacy is important, it, too, is insufficient. The next American president must demonstrate principled leadership that truly reflects our values and protects our interests by demonstrating the strength and resolve necessary to ensure our security. Rogue regimes and their terrorist allies, sensing an opportunity, are expanding their influence in the Middle East. America’s allies are deeply unsettled, worried that the enemies who provide a clear and present danger to them and to us believe that America is either unable or unwilling to counter their advances. We should not shy away from the responsibility that comes with being the world’s lone superpower, nor should we subvert our own unique standing by stooping to embrace regimes opposed to our values that routinely express their hatred for us and sponsor terrorist attacks against our citizens. We must reverse the current course of our nation’s policy in the Middle East by clearly demonstrating that we know where America stands and are unafraid to do what is required to protect our interests, our allies, and ourselves. Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and hegemony in the Middle East threatens the already tenuous stability throughout the entire region. ISIS terrorists corrupt religion to justify murder, recruiting Western citizens to join in their jihad. A tyrannical regime clings to power in Syria, slaughtering tens of thousands of innocent civilians. Our closest ally in the Middle East, Israel, faces threats from all sides. Many of these challenges are extremely complex, and America cannot and should not confront all of them alone. But the path forward should involve leading from the front, rallying our allies behind our just cause. We need to show that our commitment to our friends is more than mere lip service. We must be unyielding in our support of our true allies, never letting trivial or petty disagreements supersede important relationships built over decades. This only serves to undermine our interests and empower our enemies. Our allies across the Middle East must know that the United States will help them in times of crisis and will work closely with them to ensure they remain safe, secure, and prosperous. Moving forward, the world should know where the United States stands. We cannot allow Iran to achieve nuclear-weapons capability. We must ensure that Israel continues to exist as a safe, secure democracy. And we must prevent radical Islam, which celebrates death and seeks to destroy modern society, from achieving a lasting foothold in the region. When the United States draws red lines and issues ultimatums, we must be prepared to enforce them. Our failure to do so creates the perception that we are weak and uncertain; it emboldens and motivates our enemies. Failure to follow through on our promises creates the perception that we are a paper tiger, and it inspires radical regimes and terrorist groups to increase their aggressive pursuits, which run counter to our own hopes for the region. The global community, especially those regimes whose nefarious actions should exclude them from the family of nations, must understand that the United States means what it says. Though we should always exhaust diplomatic options first, we must also be unafraid to confront aggression in kind and never feel forced to apologize for doing what we must to defend our nation and the security of our citizens. With an overarching philosophy based on our values, we should champion policies that support our interests: security, stability, and economic opportunity. Historically, we have engaged other nations in pursuit of these interests, and ensuring that our future remains bright requires continued work in these areas. Clearly articulating our foreign-policy vision in the Middle East will provide comfort to our friends, and it also will provide clarity — and serve as a warning and a deterrent — to those who wish us harm. Terrorists, rogue states, and nations with hostile agendas running counter to our own must understand not only that America takes notice of their actions, but that we will punish such behaviors, and never abide or reward them. In his first inaugural address, President Eisenhower said, “Forces of good and evil are massed and armed and opposed as rarely before in history. Freedom is pitted against slavery, lightness against dark.” Eisenhower was referring to Communism, of course, but his words ring true for today’s Middle East as well. In order to ensure the safety, security, and prosperity of our great country, we must clearly define our goals in the Middle East. America must support our friends in every way possible and work hard to prevent our enemies from harming our interests. We must reignite American leadership to stabilize the Middle East, protect our allies, and defend our nation, our allies, and our interests. The United States must return a sense of moral clarity and conviction of purpose to our Middle East policy, and we must be willing to lead in a manner that reflects our values. 
Thank you, always good to be with you. Well, you know, we certainly are keeping our ear to the ground and carefully watching, and you know, I’ve been very gratified by the response of grassroots people making donations. And we’ll see where that goes. Absolutely. I’ve not read that particular one, but I have had a chance to look at a lot of material on not only al Qaeda, but the radical Islamic movement in general, the kinds of things that motivate and drive them. Well, first of all, you have to recognize they go back thousands and thousands of years, really back to the battle between Jacob and Esau. But it has been a land issue for a very long period of time. Possession is very important to them. And one of the things that we’re doing, I think, incorrectly right now is not recognizing that they are expanding their territory. Not only the land that they’ve taken in Iraq, but what they’ve taken in Syria, they’re creating an Islamic state. And we can bomb it all we want. But unless we actually can take the land back, we’re really not doing them any damage. I’m just saying that the conflict has been ongoing for thousands of years. This is not anything new, is what I’m saying. Well, the Islamic faith emanated from Esau. Well, I believe first of all that they believe that they are the possessors of right. And because of that, anything that is in disagreement with them is wrong and needs to be destroyed. And whatever mechanism they use to destroy it is okay. And that includes some of the things that appear to be very barbaric acts – chopping off people’s heads, burning them. It doesn’t matter, because they are infidels. Well, I think right now, our biggest enemies are the group motivated by, that have sprung out of the Sunni radicals. That would be ISIS. And you know, there are a number of sponsored terrorist groups that emanate from the Shiia, which are based primarily in Iran. Right now, they’re fighting each other in Iraq, admittedly. But in the long run, I think they would gladly unite against us in their attempt to destroy the United States, our way of life, and Israel. And we have to be extraordinarily careful about any alliances with them. They are. There’s no question they’re at each other’s throats, and it’s tempting for us to say you know, the enemy of our enemy is our friend. But I do not believe that for one second. I believe that they believe that we are evil, and they want us destroyed. No. No, because I don’t believe that they operate under the same guidelines as the rest of civilization in the sense that we were able to have some security, because people were afraid of mutual destruction. And I don’t believe that the threat of destruction to them carries the same weight as it does for other parts of civilization. In fact, in their philosophy, you know, becoming a martyr and dying could be a good thing. I think currently, it is a greater threat, because I believe if they are able to acquire nuclear weapons, there’s a greater chance that they will utilize them, or that they will fall into the hands of other terrorists who might in fact use them. I have nothing against negotiations, but they need to be very serious negotiations. And the demands need to be met quickly. So if we want to inspect, we should be able to inspect not based on their wants and desires, but based on what we have demanded. And if they’re not willing to comply with those, then why are we playing games with them? Well, I think he’s a very rational actor, because he is sensing weakness. He’s sensing weakness in us and our allies in Europe, and he’s a bully. And I think he has bold ambitions, wants to reconstitute and empire. You know, when he invaded Georgia in 2008, you know, it was thought that you know, this was going to accomplish a limited, military action, and then he would withdraw. He never withdrew. And then he’s taken Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. And I think the only thing that really is stopping him is finances right now. And we should understand that, and we should do everything we can to create more economic problems for him. But then in the meantime, we should recognize what his goals are. And we should be establishing relationships with all the former components of the Soviet Union. We should be strengthening NATO. We should be getting them aligned with NATO. I mean, we need to be proactive. Why should we just wait until he does stuff and then say oh, he’s a horrible person and talk about sanctions again. That doesn’t make any sense. I think they would be willing to go to war if they knew that they were backed up by us. I think part of the problem throughout the world right now is that our allies cannot be 100% certain that we’re behind them. Well, if we have them involved in NATO. We need to convince them to get involved in NATO and strengthen NATO. No, I haven’t had a chance to, I’ve certainly heard what’s in it, but I haven’t actually read them. Yes. Well, not only the submarine fleet, but the entire Navy, as you probably know, is at a state that is the smallest that it’s been since 1917. We are now in the process of not cutting out fat, but cutting into the muscle and cutting into the bone. And the question is, is that going to continue? And the answer is yes, if we continue with the current rash of sequestering. So I believe that Congress is going to have to intervene, because I think the President is perfectly happen to continue with the cutting into the flesh and the bone of our military strength. Well, I would put I this way. We need to look around the world and see what our needs are. It’s not necessarily the kind of thing that you can say $600 billion dollars is going to take care of this, or $700 billion, you know, that it may well. But you first of all have to ask yourself what your goals are, what are you trying to accomplish, and how critical those things are. And we look at, you know, things that are Level A critical, things that we absolutely must do. Those cannot be compromised. And we look at Level B, things we’d like to do, and Level C, things we may or may not do sometime in the future. Level A things, we must take care of, so I would be willing to sit down with the budgetary analysts to figure out what that amount has to be to accomplish those things. No, I would say we need to be able to respond in at least three areas of the world simultaneously. If we don’t have what we need to be able to do that, I think we’re in great jeopardy. They’re fair questions to ask. But they have to be willing to hear the answer. And the answer to that kind of thing is the job of the commander-in-chief is not to micromanage the military budget or micromanage the way that things are done. It is to set out the goals and to produce those for the people who really are the experts in those areas to carry out. I think one of the big problems that we’re having right now, both in terms of morale and in terms of being able to accomplish things is that we have people who really have no idea what they’re doing trying to control the military. Well, when you were saying Baltic state, I thought you were continuing our conversation about the former components of the Soviet Union. Obviously, there’s only three Baltic states. Right. I ‘ve read a lot in the last six months, no question about that. There’s a lot of material to learn. There’s no question about that. But again, I have to go back to something that I feel is a fundamental problem, and that is we spend too much time trying to get into these little details that are easily within the purview of the experts that you have available to you. And I think where we get lost is not being able to define what our real mission is, and not being able to strategize in terms of how do we defeat our enemies, how do we support our allies? I could spend, you know, the next six years learning all the details of all the SALT treaties and every other treaty that’s ever been done and completely miss the boat. Well, if you go to, let’s say, a very well-run hospital, you’re going to have a president of the hospital or chief administrator. He probably doesn’t know a whole lot about cardiac surgery, probably doesn’t know a whole lot about neurosurgery or pediatric infectious disease. But he knows how to put together a structure where the strength of all those departments work effectively. And as far as having an amateur in the Oval Office in the last six years, I would take issue with that. I would say that this man has been able to accomplish a great deal. It’s maybe not the things that you and I want accomplished, but in terms of fundamentally changing this nation and putting it on a different footing? I think he’s done quite a masterful job. Well, I think we’ll see what the people have to say, basically. We will give them an opportunity to listen to the answers, listen to the rationale, and understand whether there is room for somebody who isn’t soaked in the political bath.

Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu showed great leadership with his speech to a joint session of Congress about America’s potential nuclear deal with Iran. History and our past relations with Netanyahu indicate that the prime minister has earned some trust, and no matter what side of the aisle we stand on, we must stand with Israel. Last December, I had the magnificent opportunity to travel to Israel and visit many historical sites of spiritual importance. After speaking with many Israeli citizens and witnessing firsthand the beauty of a nation with so much pride, I could not help but think of how we in the United States have a strong Judeo-Christian heritage. Israel is one of our strongest allies, and acknowledging the history that we share is important to our identity and to the promising value system we maintain. Iran continues to conceal aspects of its nuclear program, and thus its compliance with agreements it has signed is heavily questioned. Iran’s regime, and its quest for nuclear weapons, is not merely a Jewish problem, but rather one that poses a substantial and realistic threat to world peace. As Netanyahu said, things undoubtedly will become worse if there is a deal that gives the Iranians protection and enables them to continue flagrantly operating secret nuclear facilities (as they had been doing in Natanz and Qom) while ostensibly invested in a diplomatic process with the United States. We must not allow them to continue to enrich uranium and maintain their enormous nuclear infrastructure. According to estimates, Iran could have 190,000 centrifuges enriching uranium within a matter of weeks. A “breakout time” to a nuclear bomb (“breakout time” refers to the amount of time it takes to accumulate enough weapons-grade uranium or plutonium for a nuclear bomb) would be approximately one year, according to a U.S. assessment. In February of 2014, the Institute for Science and International Security estimated this time period to stand at roughly two months. Meanwhile, the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations’ nuclear watchdog) continues to report that Iran refuses to be transparent with IAEA inspectors about its military nuclear program. The current deal with Iran allows for various concessions, including no requirement to destroy any nuclear facilities, as well as enabling all restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program to expire automatically in a decade. Does that sound comforting to you? As the United States works to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, we are also dealing with ISIS as a formidable enemy that threatens our way of life. Every resource available should be used to eradicate the threat of ISIS while it is still in its adolescent stage. That means using every tool we have: banking facilities, sanctions, you name it. And I would not hesitate to put boots on the ground, because nothing should be beyond consideration. The whole concept of “no boots on the ground because of what happened in Iraq” is silly. The threat that Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda posed at that time was on a completely different level from what we are looking at now. It is immature to equate the two in terms of reactions. ISIS wants to destroy our way of life and us. We have two choices: We can sit back and wait for them, or we can use the resources we have to destroy them now. We need to be the leader and take serious action. I am extraordinarily concerned about the fact that we are not responding to the barbaric acts that are taking place, as there is a tremendous leadership void. A coalition will form if it has a leader. I would commit everything to eliminating ISIS right now. We have to make sure that our military, which is extremely talented and maintains very good leadership, is not put into a compromised position where we are trying to micromanage things. Otherwise, we will be exposing many people to a state of grave danger. Across the globe, citizens are dealing with an evil in today’s society that is threatening Christians, Jews, and anyone who does not believe as ISIS does. If we allow it to keep growing, it will become a big tree with lots of branches and roots, rather than the bush it is now. The lack of an adequate response to both ISIS and Iran will endanger not only us in the long run, but the entire world.

We have all heard it said many times that America is a land of immigrants — some voluntary and some involuntary, but immigrants nevertheless. We have plenty of space in our country, but insufficient resources to support everyone who wants to come here. When we see innocent children used as political pawns, it still tugs at our heartstrings, which is the desired intent. The real question is: What are we going to do about it? Immigration reform has been a very tough issue, as well as a political football, and it has produced governmental stalemates and no useful solutions for decades. President Obama’s decision to act unilaterally outside of Congress is not the answer. Instead, Congress must use its lawmaking powers to repair a system that is so broken that only a legislative solution can fix it. The lack of policy progress has been incredibly frustrating, and the humanitarian border crisis this summer only highlighted how badly we need a system that deals efficiently and effectively with both illegal and legal immigration. It is time for Congress to act, and to do so in a bipartisan fashion that engenders the confidence of the American people. There are many common-sense prescriptions within reach of our government. It is time to seize them. To begin to solve this problem, we must first have some understanding of why it exists. Despite all of its problems, America is still the place of dreams. As such, it is small wonder that so many from other nations would like to live here. Right now, we have very porous borders and unenthusiastic and inconsistent enforcement of immigration laws. Further incentives for illegal immigration are easy enrollment in public schools, easy employment for those willing to take jobs others don’t want, easy access to health care, and easy acquisition of public support through welfare programs. Yet this population cannot participate in the formal workforce, which means they cannot contribute fully to their local economies. Any discussion of immigration reform should include bipartisan solutions that both address the undocumented population here today and discourage illegal immigration going forward. If these issues are not addressed, solutions will fall short. On the other hand, if all of these issues are addressed firmly and consistently, we can uphold the rule of law and discourage further illegal immigration. Detractors will say that if it were that simple, it already would have been done and we wouldn’t be having this discussion. What they fail to account for is the fact that the issues have not been addressed. A national guest-worker program makes sense and seems to work well in Canada. Non-citizens would have to apply for a guest-worker permit and have a guaranteed job awaiting them. Taxes would be paid at a rate commensurate with other U.S. workers, and special visas would allow for easy entry and egress across borders. Guest-worker status would be granted to individuals and not to groups. People already here illegally could apply for guest-worker status from outside of the country. This means they would have to leave first. They should in no way be rewarded for having broken our laws, but if they are wise, they will arrange with their employer before they leave to immediately offer them a legal job as soon as their application is received. When they return, they still would not be U.S. citizens, but they would be legal, and they would be paying taxes. Only jobs that are vacant as a result of a lack of interest by American citizens should be eligible for the guest-worker program. In return for greater certainty on immigration, employers must bear some responsibility for making sure that no illegal immigrants are hired. Employers who break the rules should receive swift, severe, and consistent punishment that constitutes a real deterrent and not a mere inconvenience. A second infraction should be a criminal offense and treated as such. All of this is irrelevant unless we have secure borders. There is much that can be learned from security personnel in prisons and other secured facilities, and there is a great deal of smart technology that can be employed to achieve secure borders. It is a matter of will rather than ability. As long as we reward people who break laws, they will continue to break laws. We do need a continual flow of immigrants, but choosers need not be beggars. We make decisions based on our needs. People who refuse to comply with the rules must forfeit chances of legalization in the future. Anyone caught involved in voter fraud should be immediately deported and have his citizenship revoked. The point is this: We must create a system that disincentivizes illegal immigration and upholds the rule of law while providing us with a steady stream of immigrants from other nations who will strengthen our society. Let’s solve the problem and stop playing political football.
 
While the media have been focused on the missing Malaysian aircraft, massive alterations of the world’s geopolitical terrain are under way simultaneously. The annexation of Crimea by Russia should not have been a surprise for anyone who suspects that President Vladimir Putin is trying to re-establish a powerful Soviet-style empire. When he aggressively attacked Georgia in 2008 after both Georgia and Ukraine failed to obtain NATO admission at the Bucharest Summit, we should have realized that his goals were not limited to one territory. I suspect he is now calculating an excuse to occupy the easiest regions of Ukraine first and then the whole country over time. The United States encouraged Ukraine to give up its nuclear arsenal and to de-emphasize its military complex, but in its moment of dire need for tangible support, will we have the courage and fortitude to help stop Russian aggression, which ultimately could lead to another Cold War or worse? Many probably have forgotten the worldwide turmoil created during the Cold War, which ended a quarter-century ago. Allowing conditions to mature that might re-create another dominant world power hostile toward the United States could easily reinforce those radical elements who wish to see the demise of this nation. One of the ways we permit such conditions to arise is through our fiscal irresponsibility, which substantially weakens us because the borrower is subservient to the lender. Can we be objective in our treatment of nations, no matter what their actions, if we owe them great sums of money? Ronald Reagan facilitated the demise of the Soviet Union without firing a single shot. He enacted policies that resulted in a financial meltdown that ended the brutal Soviet reign. The recent precipitous fall of the Russian stock market cannot go unnoticed by Putin, and more financial pressure applied immediately could give pause to his grandiose schemes. We could freeze Russian financial assets, downgrade trade associations or rapidly establish energy production policies to free the European Union from the Russian energy stranglehold. EU energy freedom would require the quick establishment of a rational energy development platform that does not cater to far-left environmentalists. Many advocates of common sense are also concerned about the environment, but are reasonable enough to realize that rather than using Environmental Protection Agency regulations to stifle abundant energy production, we can use the EPA in conjunction with the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship to produce and export a vast amount of clean energy. This could significantly improve our bargaining position throughout the world. Whether we are experiencing global warming or a coming ice age, which was predicted in the 1970s, we as responsible human beings must be concerned about our surroundings and what we will pass on to future generations. However, to use climate change as an excuse not to develop our God-given resources makes little sense. Expanding our wealth of energy resources, as well as encouraging the development of new renewable energy sources, would provide an enormous economic lift with obvious benefits, but it also would bolster our role as a formidable player in the struggle for world leadership. The rapidly changing geopolitical scene cannot successfully be managed by leading from behind. We need to put aside partisan ideological bickering and use our collective knowledge and wisdom to thwart the redevelopment of a powerful and dangerous rival for global influence. Perception is reality, and it is crucial that we not be seen as timid and waffling during the opening moves of this strategic chess match. Our allies must know that we have their backs when they get into difficult situations, and our support must be pronounced and immediate. If we call upon independent nations such as Ukraine to abandon their most potent weapons of defense and then only lend tepid support when their independence is threatened, we would be foolish to believe that others in the world are not observing our behavior. Consistent reliability and strong support in these matters will lead to strong support when we call upon our allies to join us in employing economic leverage against rogues who threaten world peace. Americans should be supportive and encouraging of our leaders during times of international crisis, but let’s hope they are listening to voices from all major parties about the ramifications of each option available to us in this fight. Let’s further hope that they can see the big picture and understand the importance of using all of our resources, including natural energy, to achieve our objectives. Developing our natural energy resources, controlling our national debt, consistently supporting our allies and aggressively opposing our foes without playing politics will help improve our status in the world and make peace more likely. The stakes are too high to simply be reactive. We must act if we are to lead. 
